Durban - Former president Jacob Zuma, who still enjoys a god-like status in his home province of KwaZulu-Natal, is on Tuesday set to receive more ANC visitors and be lavishly showered with gifts. The latest delegation to visit will be made up of some ANC regions in KZN such as the eMalahleni (now called Mbuso Kubheka) region and party leagues in the province including the women’s and youth leagues. On Thursday last week, Zuma’s rural home in northern KwaZulu-Natal was a hive of activity when his supporters hosted a well-organised solidarity prayer. The prayer was attended by over 5 000 supporters who mainly came from regions like Musa Dladla, eThekwini, Mzala Nxumalo, General Gizenga Mpanza and Inkosi Bhambatha. NEWS: ANC factions in KZN continue to seek the blessings of former President Jacob Zuma ahead of the much anticipated provincial elective conference. On Tuesday some ANC regions like eMalahleni & leagues will visit Zuma in Nkandla & shower him with gifts like cows. @DailyNewsSA Prominent people who attended it included outgoing ANC provincial chairperson, Sihle Zikalala, Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane, former MEC Weziwe Thusi, Bishop Vusi Dube, the founder of eThekwini Community Church, and Ntando Khuzwayo, the spokesperson of Zandile Gumede’s supporters. Tuesday’s visit comes before the ANC in the province convenes its elective conference, billed for July 15-17 at a venue yet to be announced. The delegation will be led by Dr Ntuthuko Mahlaba, the controversial regional chairperson of the ANC eMalahelni region, who until now was known as a staunch supporter of ANC president, Cyril Ramaphosa. “KwaZulu-Natal ANC Regions Leadership, Woman’s League and ANC Youth League will visit the former president of the ANC, President Jacob Zuma in his Nkandla home on Tuesday June 7 2022. This takes place prior to the KZN ANC Elective Conference set to sit next month… livestock and gifts will be presented to the former head of state,” reads the invitation. Mahlaba confirmed this to the Daily News and when asked what the purpose of the visit was, he said it was to show solidarity with the former head of state, but denied that only  the faction he is reportedly part of, the Taliban, was going to Nkandla. “It is just to see him (Zuma); we want him not to feel isolated during this time. That is what the visit is all about. All the regions are involved, not just the Taliban (faction), all regions and leagues,” Mahlaba said. Under the Taliban faction, which has Bheki Mtolo (the current mayor of Kokstad) as its provincial secretary, Mahlaba is expected to contest the position of provincial chairperson against embattled Zikalala, Nomusa Dube-Ncube and businessman Sandile Zungu. When asked whether he was still in the running to lead the province, Mahlaba said the matter was not yet open for public discussion. "We are not discussing that yet," he said. According to ANC sources in the province, the latest visit to Nkandla is meant to appease the influential Zuma, who in return is expected to give a nod to the flattering campaign of the Taliban faction. This is following it becoming clear after last that Zungu’s lobbying has successfully won over Zuma supporters (the RET faction) to back him at the provincial elective conference. But Mahlaba laughed that off when it was put to him by the Daily News on Monday afternoon. The provincial secretary of the ANC Women’s League, Nonhlanhla Gabela, is yet to confirm whether they are part of the visit or not. sihle.mavuso@inl.co.za Daily News