Durban - The three men accused of the murder of Northdene resident Kenneth Price, 74, were denied bail again. Private investigator Brad Nathanson said the men had appeared before the magistrate last Thursday for a formal bail application. Nathanson said that Julio Nobrega, Price’s neighbour, Nathan Padayachee, Nobrega’s employee, and Nikiel Pillay, also Nobrega’s employee, were in court. “Bail was again denied,” Nathanson said. “The matter has been set down for June 17, 2022.” “May justice prevail,” Nathanson said. Price’s family abroad grew concerned when Price, who was popular in the motorcycle world, had not made any contact with them since November, 2021. Nathanson had helped in nabbing the alleged killers.  The alleged suspects were tracked after police received information that a neighbour was allegedly advertising motorbikes belonging to Price for sale. Last month, the Pinetown Magistrate’s Court denied the trio bail. The suspects allegedly struck Price with a hammer and drove to Richards Bay to dump his body in a dense bush. The Daily News had reported that the sale of Price’s motorcycles on the internet led to Nathanson tracking down his alleged killers. Price’s family abroad grew concerned when Price, who was popular in the motorcycle world, had not made any contact with them since November 2021. Nathanson, together with Malvern police detectives, arrested the men. Three of the men were denied bail while the fourth accused was released on warning. A formal bail application date has been set for June 2, 2022. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said that on December 6, 2021, Price was reported missing at Malvern police station by his family, who could not get hold of him. Gwala said Malvern detectives proceeded to the victim’s home, and on arrival, they noticed blood stains. Police realised that some of the victim’s belongings including two bikes had been stolen. On May 12, 2022, police received information that a neighbour was allegedly advertising motorbikes belonging to Price for sale. “Police proceeded to the neighbour’s house, searched the premises and allegedly found items belonging to the victim. He led the police to Savannah Park and Chatsworth where the other two suspects were arrested. “They were also allegedly found in possession of the victim’s belongings. They claimed to not know the whereabouts of the victim when they were questioned. The suspects aged between 22 and 31 were arrested and charged for possession of stolen property and murder.” Gwala said the investigation by Malvern detectives led to the recovery of Price’s body in Richards Bay mortuary on Friday. Gwala said Price was in his home when he was attacked. “They allegedly assaulted him with a hammer on the body and head. They allegedly covered his body with plastic and drove to Richards Bay where they dumped him in a dense bush. His decomposed body was recovered on December 7, 2021, in the Maguzulu area in Empangeni,” said Gwala. Daily News