Eshowe - Supporters of former president Jacob Zuma were among the thousands of people and motorists who were blocked by the violent protesters who on Thursday morning blocked the R66 highway near eShowe. The supporters were on their way to a Zuma solidarity prayer in Nkandla which was organised by his sympathisers like Bishop Vusi Dube of the eThekwini Community Church. PICS: It's still a stalemate along the R66 near Eshowe after protestors blocked the road, demanding that COGTA install Mxolisi Nzuza as Inkosi of the clan. Supporters of former President Jacob Zuma who are going to a prayer in Nkandla have been blocked as well. @DailyNewsSA pic.twitter.com/gwXU9KuQzB However, their journey was not an easy one as the protesters from the Nzuza clan near eShowe in northern KwaZulu-Natal blocked the road, bringing traffic to a complete standstill. According to bystanders who spoke to the Daily News, the community wants the Department of Cooperative governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) in the province to dethrone the current acting Inkosi who is a police officer, and install Mxolisi Nzuza. PIC: Among the people who have been blocked along the R66 near Eshowe on their way to the Jacob Zuma solidarity prayer is Ngizwe Mchunu. A former Ukhozi FM presenter, Mchunu is a staunch supporter of Zuma and in July last year, he demanded his release from prison. @DailyNewsSA pic.twitter.com/MsrJPlfurH They believe Nzuza is the rightful heir to the throne and the delay by Cogta is allegedly meant to cheat him of the position. As the protesters blocked the road, travellers using the road to connect to towns like eShowe, Nkandla, Melmoth, Ulundi, Nongoma and Vryheid, from the Durban side, were cut off. That was where the supporters of Zuma found themselves. The prayer was billed to start at 10am. However, by noon some supporters of Zuma like former Ukhozi FM presenter, Ngizwe Mchunu, were still trying to find their way around burning tyres and logs that were used by the protesters to block the road. Despite that, Mchunu, who in July last year was among the prominent people who called for Zuma to be freed from jail, was adamant that he will attend the prayer. “You will find me in Nkandla, I will eventually find my way to Nxamalala’s home,” Mchunu told the Daily News while stuck in traffic. Another known supporter of Zuma, Jabulani Mthethwa, a veteran of the MKMVA in KwaZulu-Natal and a suspended member of the KZN SAPS VIP protection unit, said they will eventually get there with a battalion of MKMVA members. “We are going there, there is no way we will not get in Nkandla,” Mthethwa said while they were having a pit-stop near the R66 mall in Gingindlovu. Later, Mthethwa and his MKMVA battalion negotiated their way with adoring protesters who, instead of blocking them, waved and ululated while giving them the way. sihle.mavuso@inl.co.za Daily News