Durban - Employees in the fibreglass reinforcement industry are literally choking on plastic, this is what a study co-authored by Mangosuthu University of Technology (MUT) found. These employees’ exposure to styrene increased the risk of chronic respiratory symptoms and reduced lung function found in the study, titled Styrene-associated respiratory outcomes among reinforced plastic industry workers. The study was co-authored by Zanele Zulu, a lecturer in the department of environmental health at MUT, and Professor Rajen Naidoo of the University of KwaZulu-Natal, and was published in the Archives of Environmental and Occupational Health Journal. It found that “respiratory symptoms prevalence increased statistically significantly across low, medium and high cumulative exposure categories”. The study did not find any link between doctor-diagnosed diseases and increased exposure to styrene. The study was conducted at a fibreglass reinforced plastics factory in Durban. This factory manufactures vessels and tanks. The factory’s operation took place in the general laminating department (GLD) and the fitting department (FD). The lion’s share of the factory’s laminating tasks happened in the GLD which is big enough to accommodate large components, vessels, and tanks, and had a section for grinding and refining components. The FD, on the other hand, was reserved for small parts and accessories. Of the 254 employees who participated in the study, 33 employees in the medium and high exposure to styrene category suffered from a chronic cough compared to six of their counterparts in the low-exposure category. Thirty-two employees in the medium and high-exposure category suffered from chronic phlegm compared to four of their counterparts in the low-exposure category; 14 employees in  the medium and high-exposure category suffered from breathlessness compared to just two in the low- exposure category, while 32 employees in the medium and high-exposure categories experienced wheezing, compared to six employees in the low-risk category. “The prevalence of chronic cough and wheezing was similar among males and females, whereas breathlessness was higher among females (15.3% vs 3.6%); phlegm was higher among males (8.2% vs 1.7%). While the women smoked substantially less and worked in the lower-exposed areas as compared to their men counterparts, we are not able to determine the reasons for this variation in symptoms presentation.” The findings of this study provide further evidence that health-based exposure standards as opposed to permissible exposure standards are needed to protect the health of employees in this, and similar work environments. Daily News