Durban - IFP chairperson and King Cetshwayo District Municipality mayor Thami Ntuli has defended the horse racing event hosted by the district municipality, insisting that it had injected massive revenue into the local economy. The event, called the King Cetshwayo June, was held on Friday and Saturday. In an earlier statement, the municipality said the event was aimed at celebrating the legacy of His Majesty King Cetshwayo kaMpande, after whom the district municipality is named, while promoting and preserving the tradition of the Zulu nation through indigenous horse riding. The event included a fashion show, parade, music festival and a “Traditional Horse Race Day”. Ntuli accused the EFF of political hypocrisy, saying they had been part of the meeting in which it was agreed to hold such a festival. This was after EFF councillor Nkululeko Ngubane raised questions over the hosting of festivities.  The EFF councillor had given the municipality a Monday afternoon deadline to provide answers, and indicated that he had not been furnished with responses. “The fact of the matter is that we are serious in our quest to get answers, no one will treat the public purse as if it is theirs. We will continue to seek answers,” said Ngubane.  He expressed his disappointment at the IFP-run district for hosting the event. Speaking to The Mercury, the district mayor dismissed suggestions of wrongdoing regarding the hosting of festivities.  “The EFF is simply playing politics because they were part of the council meeting in which it was agreed to host the event because we saw the economic potential in hosting the event,” said Ntuli. He cited the huge turnout of people at the event, saying accommodation facilities had been fully booked. “Without a doubt the event was a success and clearly there was an appetite for this, hence the huge turnout. A number of small businesses also benefited from this,” the mayor stressed. Ntuli said because of its success the horse racing event would now become an annual affair. THE MERCURY