Durban - Durban designer Janak Parekh and Prince Mthokozisi of the Zulu royal household have settled their differences.  Parekh, known for dressing the rich and famous, imports suits and shirts from India and sells them to dignitaries, including heads of state and kings. He shared his story last week, where he complained that Prince Mthokozisi had taken suits and shirts to the value of R30 000 in February, but refused to pay. Prince Mthokozisi initially denied the claims, but has since met with Parekh and ironed out their problems.  The major complaint was that Prince Mthokozisi ordered a black suit worth about R30 000, which was imported from India, but which Parekh sold to him at a discounted price. He also alleged that he took several shirts in the king’s name and promised he would pay later.  Parekh, who has a long relationship with the Zulu royals, having designed suits for the late King Zwelithini and the current monarch, King Misuzulu, said he was happy about Prince Mthokozisi’s response. “After the article, he called me and arranged the meeting, where he paid the money. He could not pay all up front, but he made a promise, and I accepted that. “He did fix the issue traditionally as he brought elders to be part of it, which I appreciate. I have dealt with royals for many years, I did not want anything to spoil the experiences and the relationship I have with them.  “I can confirm that we had a fruitful meeting and I will continue to work with him in the future,” said Parekh. He said he looked forward to continue working with the Zulu royal household. Prince Mthokozisi referred to the issue as a “misunderstanding” and confirmed that they had reached an agreement. He blamed his “busy” schedule, saying it had resulted in a delay in paying Parekh his money. “We met and ironed out the misunderstanding. We will continue to work together with Parekh; he has been loyal to the Zulu royal household and we have great respect for his work,” the prince said SUNDAY TRIBUNE