Durban - Soldiers deployed under Operation Chariot in KwaZulu-Natal continue to rehabilitate the damaged road on the M4 and Leo Boyd Highway. Public roads and infrastructure were damaged and disintegrated during heavy rains and floods in KwaZulu-Natal in April. Captain Tshegofatso Gwai said the Engineer Squadron members deployed under Operation Chariot for disaster relief continue to effectively make positive changes for communities in KZN province. The current engineering task members are executing is the road reconstruction and rehabilitation on the M4 which was extensively damaged by the floods. Gwai said that the soldiers' daily duties on the construction site comprise assembling gabion baskets, filling gabions with stones, connecting the 600mm and 900mm stormwater pipes that channel the water, backfilling and compacting varied sand (G7, G5, G2) and gabion stones using specialised construction machines while on the other hand the Tipper vehicles are continually collecting, delivering and transporting other material needed for the road rehabilitation. “The workload is massive, the site is dusty and the common goal among all workers on site is again to make the road accessible for the motorists,” Gwai said. “The men and women in uniform are involved in two projects here at the M4, the Leo Boyd Highway and the other project at La Mercy.” Gwai said other members who are involved in the project are from the Department of Transport and also Expanded Public Works Programmes from the province who support and work together with soldiers. Gwai added that the members are under the command of the Engineer Squadron’s Major Madimetja Lucas Masenya. Earlier this month, the SANDF said engineers have started reconstructing the uMdloti Bridge and the M4 highway in La Mercy. Lieutenant Phuti Badimo said that as part of the support and services provided by the SANDF to the city of eThekwini disaster relief, a multidisciplinary team of engineers and operators has been assigned to support the Department of Transport in the repair and rebuilding of roads and bridges. Badimo said that, led by SA Army Construction troop commander Captain Siyabonga Khumalo, the reconstruction of the uMdloti Bridge and the M4 highway in La Mercy is under way. Daily News