Durban – The 2022 Sardine run started in Margate, with reports of the first successful net pulled to shore on Friday as scores of people gathered to watch one of the most anticipated annual events. Social media was buzzing from Friday with pictures and videos of the large netting of sardines on Margate beach. Other hopefuls monitored seabird and shark activity along the KwaZulu-Natal’s South Coast.   Multiple nettings were reported between Margate and Lucien beaches.   Natal RedEye Fisheries said there was a lot of activity between Sezela and Umkomaas yesterday afternoon, with reports of sardines washing up on Port Shepstone beach. Other nettings reported by The Sardine Run on Saturday: ∎ One netting in Hibberdene. ∎ One netting at Pennington Beach. ∎ One netting at St Michael beach.   Scottburgh fishers launched their boats on Sunday morning in the hope of finding sardine shoals. “This is Scottburgh. Boats have launched. There has been fish deep out. Hopefully we get something. There seems to be a lot of activity this morning, so hopefully we get (shoals) in Scottburgh, Umkomaas, Sezela, and Pennington,” said Natal RedEye Fisheries.   An update posted at Fishing Durban, said anglers were waiting for shad to arrive in Port Shepstone on Sunday morning. The sardines lure the shad. “Sardines in the front here, seabirds are diving, probably be some sharks as well but we are waiting for the shad to come. If the shoal gets close enough, we’ll probably get some.   In an update, The Sardine Run Facebook page reported that sardines were netted at Winklespruit beach on Sunday morning. “Netting currently taking place between Warner Beach and high rocks in Winkelspruit. Couple of boats in the water. There’s about four boats pulling at the moment.”    It was also reported that sardines were netted in Doonside. Meanwhile, IOL reported last week that the beaches along the Durban coastline remain closed following the April floods. “As a result, the beaches remain closed until further notice due to high E-coli levels and the public are advised to avoid all contact with water in the rivers. “In the interests of public health, communities are advised to avoid all contact (swimming, fishing, recreational and sporting activities, as well as traditional activities) with water in rivers or streams, as this may result in gastroenteritis, diarrhoea, typhoid, cholera, and other waterborne diseases,” eThekwini Municipality said. THE MERCURY