Durban - With a week to go until the world celebrates World Blood Donor Day, the South African National Blood Service (SANBS) has said thanks for giving someone the gift of another tomorrow. Every year in June, South Africa observes World Blood Donor Day, a drive to emphasise the need for a stable supply of healthy, safe blood and blood products. Moreover, this month-long celebration serves the purpose of thanking and encouraging people to commit to regular donations. The SANBS said that it was because of people like Martie van der Walt, who at the age of 72 had made more than 117 whole blood donations, that the SANBS is able to consistently deliver life-saving, safe blood to the nation. In January last year, Mosa Mphore, a donor kidney recipient, entered the last stage of rejection. “My doctors decided to place me on plasmapheresis to stop my body from rejecting my kidney,” Mphore said. However, following an initial 10 rounds of plasma transfusions, Mphore is doing well. “It was like a second transplant for me. The plasma helped to keep my kidney alive. I will forever be grateful,” he expressed joyfully. The SANBS said that thousands of people with chronic and life-threatening conditions who have been given second chances at life, join the SANBS in thanking blood donors, this World Blood Donor Day. These invaluable, regular donations have given people like Mphore an opportunity to make more memories with their families. The SANBS marketing and communication senior manager, Thandi Mosupye, said: “The best gift you can give anyone is the gift of life. We know that South Africans have huge hearts and we call on them to fully embrace the spirit of unity under this year’s World Blood Donor Day theme, Donating blood is an act of solidarity. Join the effort and save lives.” The SANBS applauded its regular donors who ensured the target of 3 500 units per day was maintained. “This Youth Month we are appealing to young, healthy South Africans to also take up the cause of donating blood and make it a lifestyle choice,” added Mosupye. World Blood Donor Day was established in 2004 and it serves to raise awareness of the need for safe blood and blood products and to thank blood donors for their voluntary, life-saving gifts of blood. It is celebrated every year on June 14, on the birthday of Karl Landsteiner, who was born in 1868. Landsteiner was an Austrian biologist, physician and immunologist who distinguished the main blood groups in 1900. He was awarded the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine in 1930. World Blood Donor Day celebrations bring a precious opportunity to celebrate donors on a national and global level. South Africa celebrates blood donors for the whole month of June, hence, National Blood Donor Month. Daily News