Durban - A Durban designer, known for dressing the rich and famous, claims that a Zulu prince has taken suits and shirts valued at R30 000 and has not paid for them.  Janak Parekh, a designer who imports suits and shirts from India, said while he enjoyed good relationships with members of the Zulu royal family, he felt betrayed by Prince Mthokozi, who took the clothing in February and has been avoiding his calls for payment since – a claim which Prince Mthokozi has denied. Parekh has a history of designing garments for dignitaries including heads of states and the late King Goodwill Zwelithini. He has also made several suits for King Misuzulu and several princes. However, Parekh alleged that Prince Mthokozi had been visiting his place in Durban where he would take shirts on behalf of the king, but would not pay. He said in February, Prince Mthokozi ordered a black suit worth about R30 000 which was imported from India, but which he sold to him at a discounted price. He also alleged that he took several shirts in the king’s name and promised he would pay later.  “I have a long history with many politicians and the late king. I have been dressing them since the era of former president Nelson Mandela. I’m not driven by the money, it is my passion,” said Parekh. “But I must state that I am disappointed by Prince Mthokozi who seemingly has taken advantage of that.  “He ordered a suit that he collected in February, and he has been ignoring my calls when I asked for the payment. “The normal price for a suit I delivered is around R30 000, but because of the good relations I had with the king and the royals, I discounted the suit to R8 000,” he said. Parekh said he escalated the matter to other senior princes, hoping to get his money. He said Mthokosi ignored his calls and did not reply to his WhatsApp messages. “Previously, he would tell me he was held up by back-to-back meetings and promised to get back. I feel like I am a nuisance to him having to call him every day without a response. As a businessman I have debts to pay and all these nice things are imported from India where we have the staff. I need money to keep going,” he said. When contacted, Prince Mthokozi admitted that he owed Parekh money, but said he was surprised that the matter was escalated to the media. He concurred with Parekh about him having a cordial relationship with royals. “It is not an issue as he put it out to be. I know him very well since he was dressing the late king and the current king.  The shirt he is referring to which I collected for the king, did not fit him. They are still in the car and I will return them when I come to Durban. “Parekh offered to do suits for us free of charge, but I suggested that we pay, since he is also in business. He then charged R8 000 and I paid a portion of about R4 000. I know that I still owe the difference. It is just that I have been busy with traditional leaders’ meetings.,” he said. Parekh denied having received any money from Mthokozi. SUNDAY TRIBUNE