Durban - Poor work ethic and abuse of overtime pay is killing service delivery in the eThekwini Municipality. That is the view of some Durban residents. The concerns were also raised by eThekwini mayor Mxolisi Kaunda who   said while the city had more than 20 000 city workers, this was not reflective on the ground in terms of service delivery. Kaunda even warned the city had no place for lazy workers and performance management measures would be implemented. A Durban resident, Johan Smith, said in a letter to The Mercury: “We greatly welcome the eThekwini municipality curtailing overtime as a means to cut costs and employ more staff. The deputy mayor Philani Mavundla must be commended for his leadership.” The Mercury reported on Monday that Mavundla, who also chairs the Human Settlements and Infrastructure Services Committee and members of the committee, proposed the city should cut their overtime cost in half, from R500 million to R250 million, in favour of appointing its own staff members. Smith said: “They must also deal with the concept of presenteeism....staff that come to work and are just present. They are not productive at all. “We see this loitering in most units in the municipality. Recently, a driver and another employee sat in the front of a municipal truck while two sat at the rear. Only one employee at the rear was handing the black bags, so I question the rationale of four being in the truck. “The norm in my area is for 5 to 6 employees to come to trim trees. Only 2 will work while the others relax. They leave the trimmings to be collected over the weekend by another group of 6 employees. This is really scandalous because they receive overtime on the weekend.” The work ethic of city employees has irked many residents, with similar concerns having been raised by other residents who said on many occasions they had seen staff members, especially those from Durban Solid Waste, relaxing under trees during what should be working hours. The unit management, however, denied their employees did not work during working hours. THE MERCURY