Durban - Jobs, service delivery and crime were issues brought forward by residents of eThekwini after the municipality announced that it was rolling out free wi-fi in the inner city. The eThekwini Municipality has also started putting up boards alerting residents where the wi-fi spots are. On Thursday morning, the municipality said that it had installed free wi-fi hotspots in Warwick Junction, Florida Road and the beachfront in keeping with plans to promote Durban as a smart city with access to the digital world. It said that it was an extension to the more than 1 000 sites already in place at our libraries, Sizakala Centres, community halls, clinics and other places. “The rollout of free wi-fi will be continuing to other areas,” the municipality said. It encouraged residents to access their free 500MB of free wi-fi and get connected. Meanwhile, although a few commended the municipality for its initiative, there were concerns that the wi-fi should have been placed in more needy areas. Others felt that areas such as Warwick Junction were unsafe, while some thought the municipality could have prioritised more practical things like service delivery. Service delivery: Fatima Tarmahomed said: “Thanks, eThekwini, I use the Florida Road link all the time… How about doing something about the litter in and around the city, potholes, street lights, make our city beautiful again.” Seema Allopi said the problem was that the municipality focused on unimportant things. Zamangethe Zwane said now the municipality needed to prioritise basic needs like water and electricity. Zuber Khan said: “Got lots of money for playing games but no money to repair the roads.” Other areas that needed free wi-fi: Sbi Techn said: “I thought maybe you would say eMlazi kaJ, Klaarwater or Chatsworth, places that at the moment have zero connection not to say the beachfront doesn't deserve it though.” Sandile Msaint Shangase called on the municipality to get wi-fi to the townships so people could get access to online opportunities because they needed it the most. Vick Maharaj said: “Install wi-fi at your buildings. We all know how long the queues are, at least people can then entertain themselves.” Crime: Ty Lamont said it was a great idea, the only problem was that people’s phones and laptops would be stolen while they tried to enjoy the service. UNtokozo Mcineka Ka Makamu said those wi-fi hotspots will become crime hotspots if the city is not careful. “Fight crime first and people can feel safe going to Wi-Fi hotspots,” Makamu said. Cheryl Chanderpal said: “Who is taking out their phone and laptop in Warwick? Omg.” Yas Mathen said: “You think people are going to pull their phones out in such a dangerous area???? Stop playing with us.” Daily News