Durban - The DA says there has never been a better time for the government to demonstrate its commitment to protecting the rights of all people, particularly vulnerable and minority groups like the LGBTQI+ community, than this International Pride Month. The LGBT Pride Month which has been adopted by many countries across the globe, started in the US to commemorate the Stonewall riots, which occurred at the end of June 1969.  The DA says despite the fact that South Africa has a constitutional and statutory framework in place to protect LGBTQ+ persons, attacks against people in these communities have been on the rise.  “These attacks are concerning and must be addressed as soon as possible, because they have the potential to cause LGBTQI+ persons to reconsider their decision to visit our country as tourists,” said DA shadow minister of tourism, Manny de Freitas. The DA said it applauds SA for ranking 21st in the Asher & Lyric's LGBTQ+ Travel Safety Index, where 203 nations were ranked based on their LGBTQ+ rights. In terms of legal rights, anti-discrimination laws, and adoption recognition, South Africa was placed 21st in Africa for LGBTQ+ visitors and tourists. On the list, South Africa received a B grade. “Being ranked as high as this for human rights protection is good news for South Africa. This implies there's a lot of room for LGBTQI+ tourism to expand and flourish even further. As things stand, the ”pink rand’s“ purchasing power remains an untapped resource that has the potential to significantly boost our economy and create jobs,” he said. The DA, however, still plans to ask Minister of Police Bheki Cele about what is being done in South Africa to protect LGBTQI+ visitors from homophobic attacks and the safety procedures in place, as this will persuade people that it is safe to choose South Africa as a tourist destination. They urge the government, particularly the police, to take steps to prevent homophobic attacks and to make the relevant information available, so that South Africans are aware of the dangers of hate crimes. “This will help not only the LGBTQI+ groups, but all of South Africa as well, if tourists from these communities choose South Africa as their preferred destination,” added De Freitas. THE MERCURY