If you are still struggling to come up with this year’s ideal Father’s Day gift, here are some ideas. With the current uptick in Covid-19 infections, online shopping will help you avoid busy malls and have your gift delivered to your door. If you’re thinking of planning a trip, think low-key and social-distanced and avoid crowds. And remember, always carry essentials like extra masks and hand sanitiser, and call ahead of any trips to ensure the venues are open on the day you intend visiting. Identify your father’s interests, for example, is he a gardening fundi, an outdoorsy type, or a sports fan? Based on his preferences, you could create a low-cost experience for the day and spend quality time with the man of the moment. It’s a win-win. * For the sports fan Loot.co.za has a varied collection of sports apparel, books, DVDs and more to feed any fans deeper interest in their favourite sports. - The Football Legends collection is a package of books that celebrate the lives, careers and skills of 10 world-famous footballers, including Harry Kane, Cristiano Ronaldo and Sergio Aguero. So plan a day of braaiing and soccer and gift him his collection for a perfect end. - The Birth of Formula One (DVD) is a documentary about the beginning of Formula One racing, starting with the Grand Prix at Silverstone on May 13, 1950. The film contains archive footage of races from 1951 at Reims, Silverstone and the Nurburgring. The German Grands Prix of 1953 and 1954 also feature where Stirling Moss and Mike Hawthorn, among others, compete around the tracks. - For the historian, Loot.co.za has ESPN: Cassius Clay Greatest Hits (DVD), a collection of four fights from 1962 and 1963 featuring heavyweight boxer Cassius Clay, who later changed his name to Muhammad Ali. He went on to become World Champion. The matches included see him as a young man defeating Sonny Banks, Billy Daniels, Archie Moore and Henry Cooper, all in technical knockouts. * For the love of beer: Following the success of African Brew, the first ever book to showcase the South African craft beer scene, beer-centric author Lucy Corne is back with a second homage to hops and grain - Beer Safari. The book takes readers on a journey through the microbreweries of South Africa, stopping to chat to each brewer along the way. It is available at Loot.co.za As a cherry on top, you could also book a brewery tour at the 1000 Hills Brewery in Botha’s Hill. They offer a complimentary beer tasting with their brew-master and a tour of their facilities every Friday, Saturday or Sunday between 8.30am and 4pm. Bookings are essential via 031 777 1566 or email trevor@craftbrewers.co.za * For the outdoorsman: You will be spoilt for choice for a road trip in KZN. Take a short left and traverse the Valley of 1000 Hills or meander through the Midlands. Finish off the day with a braai - where dad gets to play with his new toys. - Gift dad an LK flask, cup and bag set (Loot.co.za). Fill the flask with his favourite warm drink, pack some of his favourite savouries and sweets and hit the road for a day for relaxing fun. - You can choose your path and final destination from Midlandsmeander.co.za or 1000hillstourism.co.za - End the day at a relaxing picnic spot for a braai, where dad could make use of another gift - his Marco Mini Braai Kit and Cooler Bag (Loot.co.za)  * Practical but thoughtful Aside from being an annoyance, load shedding presents an opportunity to gift dad a helpful gadget or two this Father’s Day. - The portable solar powered SolarLite (Loot.co.za) is an environmentally friendly off-grid lamp and emergency charging device. The LED lamp and thin film solar PV panel together with the built-in battery provide lighting and charging solutions in a variety of situations. It is handy for recreational activities such as camping, trail walking, trekking and braais. And when the power cuts hit at home, SolarLite can be used as an emergency light as well as a back-up to your mobile phone via the built in battery. - For the dad who cannot do without freshly brewed coffee, when the lights go off, the Ryobi Cordless Barista (Loot.co.za) brews one 240ml cup of coffee in five minutes. No paper filters needed. A permanent drip filter allows the grounds to be poured directly into the Barista. Compatible with single-serve packs or pre-ground coffee. - The retro dad who is just looking for the basics may appreciate a bit of old school with the Remax Proda Tape Powerbank (Loot.co.za). It is designed to look like the old type audio cassette (exact size). Charges any mobile device. *For more ideas check out Loot.co.za POST