Durban - The contents of a letter shared on Facebook and written to SA Trucker by a concerned truck driver have been met with agreement and applause. The letter shared on a KZN traffic group details how the driver, who signs off only as Talent, thinks more people will die on the numerous construction zones and roadworks on South African roads if drivers do not change their behaviour. “More people will die on our roads if we keep ignoring rules of driving through construction zones,” wrote the driver who said he drove on the N3 every day and night. He added “Truck drivers and even other motorists are guilty of ignoring construction zone rules especially when it comes to speed. As I know, at a construction zone, if there is no speed control sign, you are supposed to do at most 60km/h. I say this because indeed I have seen in many construction zones, especially at night, the speed signs are not in place, mainly because a reckless driver knocked them down. Truckers also have a tendency of overtaking other trucks at the place where the horrific accident happened over a week ago. Those truck drivers put their lives and others at risk because if the two vehicles sideswipe they can be involved in a very serious accident…” Reacting to the letter, Samantha Williams wrote that unfortunately, the N3 between Hilton and PMB is not policed enough, if at all at times. “Without consequences to the trucking companies and the drivers, recklessness will continue to occur and inevitably more lives will be lost, generally innocent lives,” she posted. “It's time the authorities actually took accountability to patrol continuously every day and not just sit on the side of the highway waiting for an accident to happen.” Cathy Anne Beattie wrote that not all truck drivers are reckless and other drivers were often to blame for fatal accidents. “I pray for you and all our truck drivers... we need you but we also need you to be safe and to drive carefully.. Not all truck drivers are reckless and other vehicle drivers are often to blame for fatal accidents... whoever reads this please take note what is on Talents heart.... Everyone, please keep him and other road users safe by obeying the road rules and driving road worthy vehicles.” Daily News