Shalandra Bunseelal The International Indian Film Academy Awards (IIFA) is one of the greatest celebrations of Indian cinema on a global platform.  Last celebrated in 2019 and on pause for two years due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the IIFA weekend created mass hysteria and magic at Yas Island, one of the world’s fastest growing leisure and entertainment destinations, located on the golden shores of Abu Dhabi.  Superstars, film-makers, musicians and members of the film fraternity descended on the city to thrill their fans for the IIFA weekend and the message was loud and bold – that IIFA is back. The highly anticipated event began with a star-studded press conference that immediately showcased the excellent relations between India and Abu Dhabi through culture, tradition and art, with blockbusters such as “Race 3”, “Tiger Zinda Hai”, “Heropanti” and “Bang Bang” being shot in Abu Dhabi. IIFA Rocks was a great fusion of fashion and music and the night saw brilliant performances from Neha Kakkar, Tanishk Bagchi, Asees Kaur, Honey Singh and Guru Randhawa, while Bollywood beauties Ananya Pandey and Jacqueline Fernandez dazzled as the show-stoppers.  The main IIFA night was a mind-blowing success. Chirpy superstar Salman Khan hosted IIFA for the very first time and was brilliantly supported by Ritesh Deskhmukh and Maniesh Paul, who stole the thunder from his more accomplished colleagues with his great sense of comedy.  The night also witnessed electrifying performances from Sara Ali Khan, Tiger Shroff, Ananya Pandey, Abhishek Bachchan, and Shahid Kapoor, but it was the dance sensation Nora Fatehi who stole the spotlight to thunderous acclaim from the audience for her sizzling dances moves. Nora was the star of the show. Everyone’s favourite, the highly acclaimed Shershaah, won the best film award, while Vishnu Varadhan took home the best director award for the same film that was produced by Dharma Productions.  Vicky Khaushal, who looked dapper in a black suit, attended the event minus his Covid-positive wife Katrina Kaif and took home the best actor award for his performance in the film “Sardar Udham Singh”.  Kriti Sanon graced the event in a yellow feather gown and won the best actress award for her film “Mimi”. The blockbuster duo of Jubin Nautiyal and Asees Kaur won the best playback singers award for the super hit song “Raataan Lambiyan”.  Some of the other stars who conquered hearts to cheering lovers of Indian cinema where Arjun Ramphal and his South African wife Gabriella Demetriades, Lara Dutta, Suniel Shetty, Ahan Shetty, Chunkey Pandey, Aparshakti Khuranna, Farah Khan, Bobby Deol, Rakhi Sawant and Boney Kapoor, and fans loved the return of Fardeen Khan.  But perhaps the biggest celebration was the return of the power couple of Abhishek Bachchan and Aishwarya Rai Bachchan to the IIFA celebrations. Rai Bachchan was her charming self on the green carpet as she recalled her special memories of winning her Miss World title at Sun City. From gorgeous gowns, sizzling fashion, perfectly dressed men, and lovers of cinema, the IIFA Awards were yet again a perfect entertainment combination night of glitz, glamour and celebration that rocked Abu Dhabi. PS: this was my 19th IIFA awards, and without fail every year this celebration cements my love and passion for cinema. See more pictures via IIFA on Twitter * Bunseelal is founder of Star Attraction and the official representative of Colors TV in South Africa. He is also a movie critic and presenter of the Breakfast Show on Eastwave Radio. POST