THREE years ago, the fathers of two sons, one the alleged murderer and the other the victim, had an awkward meeting at the Pinetown Magistrate’s Court. That matter has since been moved to the Durban High Court and, ahead of Friday’s sitting, Raj Vishnudath initiated a conversation with Sam Govender which was cordial and both men wished each other well. Vishnudath’s son Ashen, 30, was arrested and charged with the March 6, 2019 murder of Govender’s son, Navendran, who was a self-employed mechanic specialising in restoring old cars. The State alleged that Ashen lured Navendran to a meeting on the pretext of selling him a Nissan Almera, but intended to rob him as the deceased was known to carry large sums of cash. Ashen was accused of shooting Navendran three times in the head and disposing of the gun while driving in Reservoir Hills. Both men were residents of the area, and the shooting occurred near Ashen’s home. He then dumped Navendran’s body in the vicinity of Giba Gorge, Pinetown, before driving to Johannesburg. He later returned to Durban and handed himself in to the police. Ashen denied the allegations against him. Instead, he testified that he had acted in self-defence when Navendran pointed the gun at him. He faced charges of the unlawful possession of a firearm, the unlawful possession of ammunition, robbery with aggravating circumstances, murder, fraud and escaping from Westville Prison in August 2019. He was only convicted for the unlawful possession of a firearm and escaping from lawful custody. In explaining her decision not to convict Ashen on the murder charge, Judge Henriques accepted that the accused had lied while testifying, but on the balance of probabilities his self-defence claim could not be discounted completely. That’s because forensic evidence presented to the court suggested the three bullets were fired from varying ranges. Both fathers expressed their surprise to the Sunday Tribune about the murder ruling afterwards. Apart from his disappointment, Govender said he was greatly troubled by the unanswered questions he had been left with, and Vishnudath said he had expected the worst. Friday’s sitting was to initiate the sentencing. But before proceedings commenced, Vishnudath initiated a conversation in the court’s gallery, three years after they last spoke. Vishnudath told Govender he understood the pain he would be experiencing. He apologised and said, “I had nothing to do with this. We all raise our children to live good lives. I am the father of the b****** who did this” It was previously alleged that Vishnudath was involved in his son’s prison escape, but he was subsequently acquitted of the related charge.  Govender responded that he had nothing against Vishnudath and understood how he felt, but he could never forgive his son. He later told the Tribune that he “appreciated” Govender’s approach. Judge Henriques said she received a request from Vishen’s attorney, Ravindra Maniklall, for his client to be examined by medical staff at the prison. “I have drafted correspondence to the DCS (Department of Correctional Services) and asked for a medical report to be made available,” said Judge Henriques, before she adjourned the matter for a pre-sentencing hearing on July 18. SUNDAY TRIBUNE