Durban - Patients of government clinics can now choose to receive their chronic medication at a post office instead of collecting it from their clinic.  The  post office said the service was aimed at patients who live or work closer to one of these post offices than a government clinic.  “Post offices are open until 5pm on weekdays and also open on Saturday mornings, allowing much longer hours for collecting medication,” said post office spokesperson Johan Kruger. According to the post office, queues at its outlets have vastly reduced since the collection point for grants was moved to supermarkets and therefore medication can now be collected quickly. “Patients of government clinics who would like to collect their medication from their local post office, should arrange it with their clinic. The Department of Health sends the patient an SMS when the medication is ready for collection and patients have 14 days to collect it before the medication is returned to the Department of Health,” said Kruger. KwaZulu-Natal Department of Health spokesperson Ntokozo Maphisa said this initiative was part of a programme that has been running successfully for years in the province called the Central Chronic Medicines Dispensing and Distribution (CCMDD) where patients can opt to pick up their chronic medication at pharmacies like Clicks and Dis-chem as well as community stations allocated. “Due to Covid-19 and recent floods, many people were displaced so we are enhancing the programme and reminding people that the post office is available if they choose to use it,” he said. Maphisa said opting for a collection point outside of the clinic will also alleviate the pressure on the clinics and minimise queues. “The pick-up point may be closer to their homes or workplace and can result in reduced transport costs. “Typically, a patient with a chronic disease is issued with a repeat prescription for six months. Between the six-monthly clinical assessments, a stable patient only needs to visit the health-care facility to collect his/her medicine,” said Maphisa. Buyisiwe Nzimande from Embo, near Hillcrest was elated to hear about this initiative. The 79-year-old collects her chronic treatment from St Mary’s Hospital in Mariannhill which is two taxi rides away. “Now I will be able to go to my nearest post office in Hillcrest to get my medication and only travel to Mariannhill for check-ups and blood tests,” she said. The collection service is available in all provinces, except the Western Cape, at 342 post offices. THE MERCURY