Durban -  motorist who had a small quantity of drugs in his possession and was driving a zippy VW Golf panicked when police attempted to do a routine spot-check on his vehicle. Instead, Ismail Suleman, 29, who was on Umgeni Road in Durban’s CBD at the time,  drove away in haste. It resulted in a high-speed chase on May 16, 2021, during which Suleman drove through six sets of red traffic lights, with a small convoy of police vehicles trying to keep pace with his vehicle. He was eventually caught and arrested when a broken-down vehicle hampered his getaway on the Higginson Highway in Chatsworth, south of Durban. Last week, he owned-up to his actions and entered into a guilty plea agreement with the State in terms of Section 112 (2) of the Criminal Procedure Act at the Durban Magistrate’s Court. He faced charges of reckless driving and two counts of drug possession. Section 112 pleas are usually considered when the offences are not of a very serious nature. Magistrate Anita Harriram presided over the matter. He received a R20 000 fine in respect of the reckless driving charge or 12 months’ imprisonment, wholly suspended for five years, on condition that he did not repeat the offence. For drug possession, he received a R3 000 fine or eight months’ imprisonment. In his plea statement, he admitted the wrongfulness of his actions. On the day in question, Suleman said his car was without number plates and a licence disc; only the temporary garage plate was on the front dash. As he drove along Umgeni Road, he noticed a police vehicle behind him and he was asked to pull over. “I panicked as I was in possession of small amount of drugs. I didn’t want the police to find me with this.” Suleman sped off, ignoring a red traffic light signal, and confirmed that he shot through six sets of red traffic lights in total as more police vehicles joined the convoy trailing him. On a Higginson Highway bridge, Suleman got boxed in when he tried to get around a stationary vehicle. Police searched him and found the drugs and glass pipes in his possession. “I admit the manner in which I drove was reckless. My aim was to get away.” He accepted that he had placed other road users at risk and his actions were “unlawful”. “I am truly apologetic for my actions and I am making numerous attempts to better myself in order to become a productive member of society. I have, since the incident, admitted myself to a rehabilitation clinic and I have been making excellent progress in my fight for sobriety.” Suleman said part of his remorse was acknowledgement of the dangerous nature of his actions and that he had also endangered his own life. Vishalen Moodley, the State’s prosecutor, said, during proceedings, that drugs in any situation was a serious matter, especially since it could contribute to the moral decay of society, individuals and the family structure. SUNDAY TRIBUNE