Durban - Seventeen-year-old figure skater Sarah Chetty, who is a member of Team In-Sync, received her national colours in the niche sport after the team represented South Africa in Switzerland earlier this year. Originally from KwaDukuza, Sarah and her family moved to Johannesburg 12 years ago. The Grade 11 pupil, who attends Edenvale High School, is a member of the Central Gauteng Figure Skating Association. Team In-Sync received their South African National colours in May after competing in Switzerland in February Sarah explained that national colours are achieved when a person or team represents the country abroad. She said in order to be invited to compete internationally, the team has to attain a set international qualification score at a national championship in South Africa. “My team and I did not expect to receive this prestigious recognition and when we did, it was an extremely proud and emotional moment for the team, coaches and parents. “All the cold early mornings and hard work has paid off in a great way. It has inspired and motivated me to set higher goals for myself,” said Sarah.   Sarah began her skating career at the age of 10 when she joined the skating academy at Festival Mall in Kempton Park with a friend. “I learnt basic skating skills and I had to pass each level in the academy to move to the next level. My current coach Dino Quattrocecere at that time was holding trials for a synchro team and I joined his team. I then moved to private lessons with Dino. After a few years the mixed-age Synchro team was formed and I then joined my current team,” she said. Sarah practises every weekend.  “I am up very early in the mornings, so as a teenager I don’t get to sleep in on the weekends. It does not affect my day as I have the rest of the day to focus on studying, friends and family,” she said. Sarah has competed in solo programs and made the podium a few times while Team In-Sync has competed in provincial and Interprovincial competitions. “Team In-Sync are two time national champions, in 2021 and 2022. We have also competed in Switzerland at the Neuchatel Trophy competition and placed 4th out of 6 countries,” said Sarah.   Her advice for other children who would like to join the sport, is not to be afraid. “Don’t be afraid to put on skating boots, it is the most exhilarating feeling to be on the ice. You should believe in yourself and that you can achieve anything you put your mind to. “Dedication and commitment are all you need to succeed. The skating committee becomes your family and you will broaden your network across the country,” said Sarah. Sarah hopes to compete in another international competition with her team in the near future. Her success as a figure skater could not have been achieved without the support of her family, she said. “My mom is very involved in my skating. She takes me to all my practices and competitions while working a full-time job. She is always there for my high and low moments. My mother has sacrificed a lot to ensure that I continue with my passion for skating,” said Sarah Sarah said figure skating is an expensive sport and both her parents are very supportive in assisting the team with fund-raising initiates. Sarah’s mother Vani Chetty, said she is extremely proud of her daughter. “Watching her from the first moment she stepped onto the ice when she could barely stand on the ice and progressing to achieving her national colours has been a very emotional moment for me,” she said. Chetty said while Sarah has achieved much as a solo skater and part of her team, her ultimate proudest moment was when the team was selected to compete in Switzerland. Chetty’s advice to parents is to be supportive through the many high and low moments and allow their coaches to do what they do best. “When your child starts, get as much information as possible on how your child needs to progress in the sport as there are levels that must be completed,” she said. She added that synchronised figure skating has very little recognition in South Africa and as a result funding is very difficult to come by. She said the ice fees can be expensive and figure skaters have minimum sponsorship. “It is such a beautiful sport to watch but due to the lack of funding many talented skaters leave the sport which is a shame. Ice time is limited for our skaters to practise, so achieving the hours for practice time can be quite tricky. Almost all competitions local and abroad are funded by dedicated parents,” said Chetty.    MOST READ: Driver shot in hijacking, bullet-riddled vehicle found abandoned in KwaMashu Durban family devastated after dismembered body of missing girl, 6, found floating in an uMhlanga beach THE MERCURY