Durban - A Nile monitor lizard’s tail had to be immediately amputated, after the lizard was rescued from a factory in the Durban area. Nick Evans said that last Friday he received a call about a lizard that was stuck in a factory. He said there was a huge wooden board up against the window on the bottom floor. From the second floor, the lizard could be seen in the space it was trapped in. Evans said monitor lizards were incredible climbers and it could have probably used the mesh. The factory owner decided the window could be broken. “Obviously, we didn't want glass hurting the lizard, but these lizards have very tough skin,” Evans said. “I started breaking the window hesitantly, trying not to cause excessive damage.” Evans said no one else was worried. Someone there took the hammer from him, saying: ‘You may be good at working with animals, but not with glass’. “With the glass broken, I stood on a chair and managed to reach in and grab the lizard, with my welding gloves (thanks Warren's Small World for those!),” Evans said. “Once I had the lizard out, I could see it had an extremely nasty injury on the tail. Someone had apparently hit it three weeks ago, to try and prevent it from entering the factory. It managed anyway and has been hiding in there for three weeks, in a lot of pain,” added Evans Evans said it was rotting and stinking. The lizard was slightly underweight, probably dehydrated, but strong. Evans said he took the lizard to Dangerous Creatures at uShaka Marine World, so that the veterinary team could check it. “As expected, the tail was immediately amputated. It wasn't too high up, closer to the end thankfully. They use their tails for swimming mostly. The tail had been healing well already, by itself,” Evans said. “It was given painkillers and antibiotics, if I recall. It had water and a meal too! It will be released very shortly,” added Evans. Evans said lizards were tough animals. He said that while he was at the factory, staff and passers-by were all keen to eat the lizard. Evans said these magnificent animals are constantly being killed for people to eat. Their numbers take a hammering around Durban because of this, but they're also killed for traditional medicine (muthi) too. He said killing these animals was illegal. They were a TOPS-protected (endangered) species and, if caught, you'll be in serious trouble with the law. “I feel so sorry for these lizards. One of the apex predators in Durban, eating anything smaller than them (not your pets). Tough, powerful and intelligent creatures, who get hacked, beaten and shot for no good or even legal reason. It's terribly sad,” Evans said. “Extremely grateful to the owner and management of the factory for calling and for wanting this animal to be safe. Always gives me a bit of hope dealing with people like that,” lamented Evans. Evans thanked Dangerous Creatures and the veterinary team for taking care of the lizard. Daily News