Durban - An infant was among five people who were killed on the R66 in Eshowe, northern KwaZulu-Natal on Tuesday afternoon. According to the KZN Department of Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, reports suggest that at around 5.30pm, a minibus taxi collided with a Ford Ranger, instantly killing five occupants of the minibus taxi. Among the deceased included two women and two men and an infant. Four more people sustained critical to serious injuries, and they were rushed to the nearby hospital for further medical care. Learning of this crash left MEC Peggy Nkonyeni sad, especially after two weeks ago, 16 people were killed in a fiery crash on the N3 in the province. Nkonyeni conveyed her deepest condolences to the families of the deceased. She also called on motorists travelling around the province to always be extra cautious. “This is really saddening, especially as we are still recovering from another gruesome accident that claimed the lives of 16 people on the N3 almost two weeks ago. My heartfelt condolences to the families of all the victims. I also wish those who sustained injuries a speedy recovery,” Nkonyeni said. The MEC also directed law enforcement to conduct a thorough investigation to determine the cause of the accident. Police spokesperson Constable Thenjiswa Ngcobo said Eshowe SAPS were investigating a case of culpable homicide. In a Facebook post, Zwelakhee Mahlambangobisi said some of the victims of the crash were entrapped. One of those killed was the taxi driver, which Facebook users referred to as Makhikhi. Another Facebook user said the father of her child was killed in the crash. Cate Khanyile said her sibling, her brother, died there. Lusakhanya Sthokozile also said that her brother was killed in the crash. However, the Daily News could not establish whether the Facebook users were referring to the same man or not. Users also said that the taxi was from the eNqoleni area, east of Eshowe. It is alleged that the taxi was travelling from the city to eNqoleni. Daily News