MIDYEAR exams are upon us, and that means stress and anxiety levels among pupils and parents alike are peaking. Avika Daya, an educational psychologist, said management and planning was important as the exam dates seemed to creep up on many learners. “Parents are encouraged to get involved with noting down exam dates, quizzing learners on work they are meant to cover, allocating times for studying, cutting down on social activities, printing past papers and so on. “Younger learners need more guidance, while older learners often don't like to ask for assistance even if they are struggling. It's important to check in with them ahead of time to determine where extra help may be required. Encourage them to come to you if they are feeling anxious or overwhelmed.” Daya said while some learners are able to work better under some pressure, cramming two terms of work into the night before was never a good idea. “As far as possible, start studying early. This may include making notes and summaries, highlighting important concepts, adding tabs to important pages in a textbook and so on. All of this help make the studying process easier and quicker. Younger learners may need their parents' guidance on how to go about this. “Learners often struggle to find time as they are still attending classes and required to complete homework in the afternoons until soon before the exams. I would suggest starting a few weeks early and set aside just 20 to 30 minutes a day to do any of the above-mentioned activities to help condense the work.” Daya said there are a number of factors to consider during exam preparation: - Study environment: Help your child clear a small study space with a calendar and enough stationery. Start by writing all the exam dates and working backwards to allocate study sessions. Remember that all children absorb information differently, and so some may need to read their work out loud, walk around and read, use lots of colours and so on. Be open to different methods.  The goal is to absorb information. - Diet and exercise: Learners should be eating a nutritional meal and drinking enough water. Energy drinks and caffeine act for a short time and leave many learners anxious after it wears off. Becoming reliant on these types of drinks is not ideal. Just because our peers are doing it, does not mean we have to join in. -Sleep/study breaks: Learners often get caught up in what their peers are doing, and while studying until the late hours of the night may work for some, it's counter-productive for others and leaves them groggy and burnt out the next day.  It is important to start knowing what works for you. Either way, getting enough sleep is important for optimal functioning. We are able to absorb and recall more information when we are well-rested. If you are getting enough sleep, there is no need for energy drinks and caffeine. Some learners also need more frequent breaks, while others are able to study for longer sessions. Start understanding what works for your child. Social media: As social media is such a big part of children's lives, parents often want to totally remove their children's devices during exam time. The reality is that it leaves many learners anxious and upset. This may be the cause of many arguments around exam time. If cell phones and devices are usually allowed in your home during the week, come to some compromise with your children during exams. For example, they are allowed to see what's happening on their device for 15 minutes. Devices prolong procrastination and keep us from focusing on the work. * Daya is a Benoni-based educational psychologist who offers play therapy, adolescent therapy, parent guidance and educational assessments. For more information, visit www.avikadaya.com POST