Durban - Miss South Africa 2022 hopefuls from Pietermaritzburg both believe Father’s Day is another opportunity to show love and gratitude to all the men who have been pillars of strength for their families.  The beauty queens gushed over their fathers, who they praised for doing an exceptional job in influencing their life decisions, shaping their self-esteem and instilling confidence, which has landed them on the Miss SA stage.  The pageant announced its top 10 finalists on Monday, which included the two KZN contestants.  Ayanda Thabethe, 22, a fourth-year UKZN dietetics and human nutrition student from a rural community of Taylor’s Halt, said Father’s Day should be to thank all fathers for choosing to be there for their families.  She said her father, Clement Thabethe, was her best friend and that they had a solid and transparent relationship. She described him as a man with a forgiving heart who sacrificed for his children.  “I can tell him anything and everything. I definitely have more in common with him and developed many of his personality traits. “Our relationship has been built from all the days that he would fetch me from school or the athletics days that he attended to support me but ended up being forced to race in the parents’ 100m sprint.  Both my parents are athletic, but my dad is incredibly fit and would always win those races, so I’d have something to boast about with my classmates. We have a tight bond that no one can break,” she said.  Thabethe told the Sunday Tribune that since being named as a top 10 contestant, she has been filled with mixed emotions, but mainly happiness. “Miss SA has definitely always been my goal. I’ve only ever done two pageants before, but the most significant one has to be Miss KZN Queen 2021. “I became more socially aware and adopted an urge to want to do more for my community. Looking back, I now see that the platform was a preparation for Miss SA,” she said. She encouraged other young women who grew up without their fathers, saying a father did not have to be of blood relation. “My heart bleeds for the young women who didn’t experience love and support from their biological fathers, and it's okay to have a different start in life. If you’re ambitious, greatness is a step away. Love yourself.”  Luyanda Zuma, 20, an international model, entrepreneur and a final year Bachelor of Live Performance student at AFDA, is a “daddy’s girl” and mostly appreciates how her father, Thembinkosi Wellington Zuma, guides and helps her to where she is today. Even having her face on a few billboards in the Ivory Coast and featuring in pan-African commercials did not compare to the quality time she enjoyed with her father. “I love his charisma and gentle heart,” she said.  “I remember he spoke to most of the girls when we found out we were in the top ten and wished them all good luck.” Zuma said, so far, the experience felt unreal and that she had to pinch herself a few times. She said being part of the competition was no different from the modelling she was used to. “I’ve done a few runway shows, and it’s very similar. I guess the only difference is now I’m competing against nine other women, and I am very conscious of the fact that I am now in the public domain and an ambassador for the Miss SA organisation,” she said. Zuma shared that having Thabethe in the competition had been a blessing as she had a sister who understood her and who could hold her hand through this journey.  “Because we come from a similar background, it gives me a sense of ease to have her near so that we can share our thoughts, fears, laughs and anxieties. We have established a real sisterhood relationship.”  The Miss SA 2022 finale will take place at the SunBet Arena at Time Square in Pretoria on August 13. SUNDAY TRIBUNE