Durban - A collision on the M25 KwaMashu Highway just passed the N2 Bridge in Avoca Durban left a passenger seated at the front of a minibus taxi, entrapped and seriously injured, on Sunday morning. Netcare 911 spokesperson Shaun Herbst said reports indicated that a minibus taxi and a light delivery vehicle were involved in a collision just after 7am on Sunday. Herbst said Marshall Security, Ethekwini Fire and Rescue, Emer-G-Med, Durban Metropolitan Police and Greenwood Park SAPS were also on the scene. He said when paramedics arrived at the scene, they found that a front passenger from the taxi was trapped in the taxi.   “The patient, an adult male had sustained serious injuries and was treated on scene while the ethekwini Fire and Rescue Services used hydraulic tools to free him,” said Herbst. Emer-G-Med Paramedics spokesperson Kyle van Reenen said once the 33-year-old man was rescued from the vehicle, he was placed on to a specialised stretcher used for the treatment and prevention of spinal cord injuries. Van Reenen said the man was transported to a Lenmed hospital.   Meanwhile, just over two hours earlier, at 5am, ALS Paramedics Medical Services reported that one person was killed and another left with serious injuries in an accident on the M4 Durban-bound near the Victoria Embankment. Paramedic Garrith Jamieson said when paramedics arrived, they found a single vehicle had crashed head on into the concrete barrier. Jamieson said the driver, a male believed to be in his thirties, sustained major injuries.   “The man was quickly assessed. However there was nothing more paramedics could do for him and he was declared dead on the scene before the jaws of life and other hydraulic tools were used to remove the body from the wreckage. “A passenger from the vehicle sustained serious injuries and was stabilised on the scene by Advanced Life Support Paramedics before being rushed through to a nearby Durban hospital for the further treatment that he required,” he said.   THE MERCURY