Durban –  Energy drink Score has partnered with a farming community in KwaZulu-Natal with the launch of a new flavour, Score Umhlonyane. The drink includes the local super-ingredient, umhlonyane. Artemisia afra, commonly known as African wormwood or umhlonyane (in Nguni), has long been used for its healing properties, playing an important part in traditional medicine. It has been used to treat the symptoms of colds and flu, loss of appetite, colic, headaches and intestinal worms. Umhlonyane is grown in the remote village of eDakeni in Mandeni, northern KZN. The community there has incorporated sustainable practices to increase the production of indigenous seedlings and medicinal plants such as umhlonyane, which they grow as a source of income. The village lacks infrastructure such as municipal water, roads, schools and primary health-care facilities. Zuplex, a South African manufacturer of active extracts using African botanicals, has powered a newly developed community nursery project in the village. Zuplex recently secured a partnership with Score that allowed the brand to introduce a new variant using eDakeni’s crop of umhlonyane. “The story of eDakeni is one that really resonates with South Africans,” said Score Energy Drinks marketing manager James Shaw. “It is a place of hope and hardship, struggle and scenic beauty, and home-grown inventiveness. In partnership with Zuplex Botanicals, we have been able to bring to light the men and women who helped produce our newest flavour and variant.” “As a rural economy catalyst, we aim to create opportunities for the community of eDakeni,” Shaw said. “As a proudly South African brand, we wanted to develop a new variant that consists of a truly authentic South African ingredient, while creating jobs and supporting a local community.” Umhlonyane also presented a new business venture to villagers in Mpumalanga, Limpopo and the Eastern Cape. “Despite that we live in isolation, we love it here,” said Zama Nzuza, a resident of eDakeni village. “This is our home and everything we know we have been taught by those who came before us.” “The rich soil gives us life,” he continued. “We have found ways to ensure that we preserve indigenous seedlings and medicinal plants through our nursery project, where we propagate and plant back what we reap from our natural environment.” Nzuza said the production of umhlonyane had given his community, which is mostly led by rural women, employment opportunities to feed their families. “Our farming methods ensure that we can secure income for our future generations,” Nzuza said. “Our community has made a choice to break bread together to overcome the obstacles that we face.” Shaw said: “Umhlonyane is the story of a community working together in unity in order to tackle our country’s economic challenges and obstacles.” “It speaks to Ubuntu and we are so proud of our collaboration with this inspiring community.” Daily News