Durban – A man allegedly linked to numerous robbery cases in the uMhlanga, Durban North, Morningside and Davenport areas was arrested after a high speed chase on the M4 south on Friday. Marshall Security managing director Tyron Powell, said at about 9.30pm, members of their special operations team, while on routine patrol, noticed two suspects robbing a victim of his cellphone on Ocean Way in uMhlanga. “After robbing the victim, the suspects jumped into a white VW Polo and immediately fled the scene after noticing our special ops team witnessing the robbery,” he said. Powell said the suspects fled onto the M4 southbound freeway in an attempt to get away. He said additional members of their special operations team and armed response officers were dispatched, and joined the high-speed chase. In dash cam footage, released by Marshall Security, the white vehicle is seen travelling at high speed on the M4.  As the vehicle approaches two cars, which are side by side occupying both lanes, the vehicle is seen moving across the roadway and overtakes the cars on the left shoulder.  After the vehicle overtakes the cars, it moves back into the fast lane then slows down. Before it comes to a stop the passenger jumps out of the vehicle and runs away. The driver is then seen running in a different direction.   Powell said the suspects exited the vehicle before the Glenashley turn-off. He said while one suspect was arrested by members of their special operations team, the other suspect ran into dense bush nearby. “After an extensive search in the bush and surrounding roads and properties, the outstanding suspect unfortunately managed to evade arrest,” he said. Powell said after the scene was secured and handed over to the Durban North SAPS for further investigation and processing, it was determined that the same vehicle and suspects were wanted for numerous robbery cases. The suspects allegedly robbed people in the Durban North, Morningside, Davenport and uMhlanga areas. “The suspects’ modus operandi is to drive up to vulnerable victims who openly (display) their cellphones or handbags. The suspects then get out of their vehicle and forcefully snatch the item of value from the victim and then run back to the car and speed off,” said Powell. The SAPS are investigating these incidents further, he said. THE MERCURY