Durban — The eThekwini municipality has answered 10 frequently asked questions about the municipality’s implementation of water rationing. As of Monday, water rationing started in parts of the municipality supplied by Umgeni Water’s Durban Heights Water Treatment Plant. Here are the municipality’s answers: 1. Why is the municipality implementing water rationing? Water rationing is implemented due to a reduced water supply from Umgeni Water’s Durban Heights Water Treatment Plant. The reduced water supply is a result of extensive damage to two raw water pipelines caused by floods in April 2022. This shortfall means that the eThekwini Municipality does not have enough water in its reservoirs to supply consumers. Rationing is necessary to ensure that all residents of eThekwini have access to water. 2. How has eThekwini selected which areas are to be rationed? Areas being rationed are those that are supplied from the Durban Heights Water Treatment Plant. 3. Why are rationing times longer in some areas than in others? In the North region rationing is happening once a day, whereas, in other regions like the South, rationing is happening twice. This is to allow the system to build up so that there will be enough water for everyone. It should be noted that some regions are in higher-lying areas, so it takes time for water to reach those areas once the water is back. 4. How long will the water rationing process take? According to a work schedule provided to Umgeni Water by the appointed contractor, repairs to the damaged pipes are expected to be completed by June 2023. Thus, the rationing process will take place for 12 months. 5. Will the municipality provide water tankers during the rationing process? Since water rationing is a planned event, tankers will not be dispatched to cover the rationing period. They will only be dispatched to areas experiencing outages, as opposed to rationing. 6. How will the process apply to the area that is already water rationed? The existing rationing plan for the areas that were already being rationed before the latest notice will remain. 7. I don’t see my area in the schedule. Why? If your area is not on the schedule, it means that it is not supplied by the Durban Heights Water Treatment Plant. 8. How will I know if my water outage is caused by rationing or by a fault that needs reporting? If the water supply does not return for a considerable amount of time of at least 3 to 4 hours after the set opening times and no visible or recorded bursts are known, a fault may be lodged for further investigation. 9. Where can I get more information about rationing? More information will be on the municipal website and on municipal social media platforms. eThekwini Municipality on Facebook and @eThekwiniM on Twitter. 10. Where can I report any issues related to this? To report any water and sewer-related matters, contact: Daily News