The State Capture Commission of Inquiry is today expected to deliver its final report with part of the focus on the State Security Agency (SSA). This is expected to highlight serious issues at the agency, as its former spy boss Arthur Fraser pursues charges against President Cyril Ramaphosa. Fraser on June 1 asked police to investigate allegations that Ramaphosa had not reported the theft of $4 million from his Phala Phala farm, and had sought to cover up the matter. As the fallout over the scandal grows, National Assembly Speaker Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula turned down a request by the United Democratic Movement (UDM) and the African Transformation Movement (ATM) to take action against Ramaphosa. The DA and ActionSA leader Herman Mashaba have called on Sars and the SA Reserve Bank to probe the theft, saying the incident had raised concern in the public domain relating to tax compliance in the transaction that led to the president acquiring $4m (R62m) in cash. Former MK spokesperson Carl Niehaus has also laid criminal charges against the president, saying he acted on legal advice and his complaint will become a supplementary affidavit to the original case opened by Fraser. “Our concern is that what was an ordinary criminal matter had never been declared as such but was treated as an intelligence matter involving state resources,” Niehaus said. Ramaphosa has denied any wrongdoing although he has provided scant details on the most pressing questions regarding the theft, why he was in possession of a large amount of foreign currency and why it was not reported to police. Fraser alleges that he did not get to have his say before the commission’s proceedings as his application to cross-examine witnesses was rejected because he would not depose to an affidavit. Political analyst Professor Bheki Mngomezulu said the latest report by the commission, in the wake of Fraser’s allegations, was bound to be problematic as it would further highlight the gaps in the evidence led at the commission. “During this section of the hearings, there were a number of things that went wrong…witnesses kept changing the narrative and others were simply lying. “The information was inconclusive and while some were said to have done wrong, there was no mention of the many others,” he said. Mngomezulu said he expected the commission’s final report, like the previous four, to have many gaps. The inquiry, headed by Chief Justice Raymond Zondo is expected to reveal its findings on the SABC, the Gupta plane landing at Waterkloof airport and the goings on at the SSA. When several members of the SSA appeared before the commission last year, they gave testimony about the amount of state funds used irregularly and details of controversial clandestine activities.