Durban - EThekwini District police made three arrests for illegal operations, dealing in liquor and dealing in second-hand goods without a permit during a joint operation in eThekwini scrapyards. eThekwini District SAPS spokesperson Captain Carmen Rhynes said the police had held a joint operation with SAPS Isipingo, eThekwini Infrastructure and Theft, Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa), Telkom, Eskom, MTN, combined investigators and CPI to curb the crimes emanating from scrap dealers and to enforce compliance with South Africa’s Second Hand Goods Act. The operation was led by Lieutenant-Colonel TD Maphumulo from eThekwini District Operations, who concentrated in the Malakazi and Isipingo area, south of Durban. Rhynes said it was important to note that further operations will be conducted in the greater eThekwini district on a continuous basis. “Multiple scrapyards in the vicinity were inspected and the operation was a great success, resulting in three arrests for illegal operations, dealing in liquor and dealing in second-hand goods without a permit,” Rhynes said. “Recovered items included an MTN cellphone tower polyphase-antenna valued at R30 000, Prasa railway cable and other copper cabling weighing 65kg valued at R8 500.” “Three cases of liquor were also recovered which included 8x250ml Smirnoff which was illegally sold at a second-hand dealer,” Rhynes said. She said a joint multi-government departments and organisation initiative was being led and guided by the SAPS. EThekwini District Commissioner, Major-General MV Kheswa said: “Take this as a warning to all scrapyard businesses, we will be doing unannounced visits and inspections, to ensure businesses are compliant with the Second Hand Goods Act. We will not allow any business to compensate criminals who steal cable and important community infrastructure. We will make the necessary arrests.” In March, 40 railings were removed from New Pier at Wedge Beach and 10 railings were removed at North Beach Pier. Afterwards, Metro Police, the SAPS and BOSS-UIP Specialist Security were believed to have apprehended the suspects behind the theft. Metro Police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad said a scrap metal business was closed down in the Point area, by the beachfront. “A strong message must be sent to the scrap metal dealers that together with the SAPS and other law enforcement agencies, we will be conducting legal searches,” Sewpersad said. “Our infrastructure is being damaged and taken to scrap metal dealers and they are not declaring. They should be declaring and they should have a register, yes they have registers but with fictitious names and you cannot trace anybody. How can you trace a vagrant that doesn’t have a fixed abode?” Sewpersad added that they will be working very closely with security agencies in terms of the eyes and ears project in Durban and eThekwini. Daily News