Durban - ActionSA leader Herman Mashaba has written to the National Director of Public Prosecutions, Advocate Shamilla Batohi, imploring her to urgently take the nation into her confidence on the progress made in the cases mentioned in the State Capture Report. Mashaba said that some of these matters had been ventilated years ago, affording the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) ample opportunities to act. However, he felt that the NPA was not moving with speed to prosecute those implicated, hence his party now urging Batohi to prioritise the state capture report. Mashaba said they want the NPA to institute criminal proceedings against those implicated in the report within seven business days of receipt of ActionSA’s letter. “In the event that the NDPP fails to do so, I, Herman Mashaba, as ActionSA President, but first and foremost as a citizen of this country, will be left with no other option but to personally lay criminal charges against those named in the report. “South Africans have had to endure endless instances of rampant corruption and complete breakdown in the moral fibre of our government, which has been ventilated and exposed through the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. “Nearly four years, with over 5 000 pages and more than R1 billion disbursed by taxpayers into this painful but necessary exercise, we are yet to see concrete outcomes,” Mashaba said. He said that they had made this request to the NDPP in line with the mandate of the NPA as set out in Section 179(2) of the Constitution, serving as the basis for the NPA to institute criminal proceedings. Mashaba added that should the NPA delay in the prosecution of any of the individuals named in the report, the party would apply for a nolle prosequi certificate from the State in each instance. “Once we are in receipt of the same, we will commence with any necessary private prosecution ourselves. The war against systemic corruption requires urgent and swift action. Arrests must be effected with resultant prosecution and imprisonment, that will give meaning to the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. “Any delay in this process will rightfully be rejected by all South Africans. If action is not taken, the purpose of the Commission will be rendered nugatory and pointless,” Mashaba said. The story will be updated with comments from the NPA once they are obtained. SUNDAY TRIBUNE