Durban - The eThekwini Maritime Cluster (EMC) welcomed cadets from the Massachusetts Maritime Academy for their KwaZulu-Natal cultural exchange programme. The EMC will be hosting 17 cadets for the next three weeks until July 8. The cadets will be afforded the opportunity to engage and exchange cultural knowledge, by participating in a different cultural tour activity across KZN. The official welcoming ceremony was held at the Royal Natal Yacht Club at Wilson’s Wharf on Monday. The day was the activation of the Massachusetts Maritime Academy Annual Cultural Tour forming part of the province’s programmes aimed at enhancing the Oceans Economy and positioning Durban as a Smart Port City. The welcoming event was hosted and directed by EMC’s managing director, Zenzile Gwamanda who handed over to councillor Nkosenhle Madlala to officially welcome the cadets into our city. eThekwini Municipality International Relations head Eric Apelgren, shared the history of Durban and South Africa as a whole and shared encouraging words to the cadets. Apelgren offered a gift of appreciation from the city department to Dr Fikile Ndlovu, a portrait of sailing boats at the Durban Harbour and a tour book that demonstrates the beauty of KZN. “During the apartheid days we wouldn’t have had a chance to do all that is offered to us now. Things like working on ships were for a particular group. The ocean is something that we feared. Never a place we thought of opportunities. Now that we have a free South Africa it means the world has opened up to many engagements such as this one. I personally like the idea of young people coming from the United States to South Africa because it inspires our youth to be channelled to opportunities that will create better futures,” Apelgren said. US Consul General Anne Linnee shared imperative information on the maritime sector and the work done by her team. “I encourage you to engage in conversations of politics and challenges that South Africa faces, I also encourage you to exchange the challenges we have in the United States,” said Linnee to the cadets on the importance of cultural exchange during their tour. The EMC said the objective of the programme was to enhance mutual understanding among the people of South Africa and the US. During their training, cadets are given an option to visit a country and the city for cultural exchange and this year Durban was selected as a suitable destination. The EMC said the programme is structured to maximise the exposure of the Massachusetts Maritime Academy cadets to South Africa, and Durban through cultural knowledge sharing. Durban maritime pupils stand a good chance to learn more about maritime from the US perspective. Activities include visiting the cultural/monumental sites, academic institutions, maritime businesses, and other events that will expose them to South Africa’s cultural activities. Daily News