Durban - KwaZulu-Natal ANC Youth League co-ordinator Mafika Mndebele has launched a scathing attack on President Cyril Ramaphosa, saying he must “voetsek“ in the wake of the Phala Phala game farm scandal. In a video doing the rounds on social media Mndebele, a former ANC Youth League regional secretary in the ANC’s Emalahleni Region in Newcastle, is seen addressing a crowd of people telling them that the owner of money banked under a mattress “must voetsek”. Mndebele was referring to the scandal exposed by former spy boss Arthur Fraser of the $4 million stolen from Ramaphosa’s Phala Phala game farm in 2020, which he did not report to authorities. “If all people are scared of Ramaphosa, we are not afraid of Ramaphosa. We will never be afraid of Ramaphosa, if Zandile Gumede must step aside, if Zweli Mkhize must step aside, Cyril Ramaphosa must step aside.  “If the leadership is afraid they are afraid because they know something. “Some of us have no money, some of us don’t want any tender, some of us don’t want anything, we want to defend our land. We will never be intimidated, we will never be afraid. “You can investigate us, you will find nothing because we are not corrupt, we are peasants. We  want justice, what happens on the right must also happen on the left,  Mndebele said, referring to the step aside rule to wide applause and approval from the crowd.  It is unclear when and where the video was taken, but it appeared to be at an ANC Youth League event as there was a mobile truck stage with ANC colours and Ramaphosa’s face on it while Mndebele was clad in an ANC Youth League T-shirt. He continued: “Young people, for you to win this battle you must start in the provincial conference of the ANC, you must remove all the betrayers and the sell-outs in that provincial conference. You will never remove them on podiums, you will remove them in the BGMs of the ANC. “Delegate number one must be a young person, delegate number two must be a young person, the chairperson of a branch must be a young person, the secretary of a branch must be a young person and the rest must deputise, it’s theirs,” Mndebele said to vociferous cheers from the crowd. The ANC provincial conference is scheduled for July 15 to 17  where incumbent chairperson Sihle Zikalala is vying for re-election in what is expected to be a bruising battle with the current provincial treasurer Nomusa Dube Ncube who is seeking to become the province’s first female chairperson.  Sandile Zungu, the executive chairman of Zungu Investments company and owner of Durban based South African Premier Soccer League outfit, AmaZulu, is also said to be challenging for the position.  SUNDAY TRIBUNE