Durban – A suspect is expected to appear in court for the murder, beheading and burning of a teenage boy in northern KwaZulu-Natal. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said the body of Thobani Khambule, 13, who had been beheaded, was found in the bushes at Mtanenkosi, in Mbazwana, at 6am on Sunday, May 29. The body was partially burnt. Gwala said Thobani was last seen on Saturday. On Tuesday, police from Mbazwana arrested a 29-year-old suspect, who was taken in for questioning after police received reports that he was last seen with the victim. “Police proceeded to an old abandoned house where the head of the victim was found in a pit toilet. A bush knife that was used during the killing was also found,” Gwala said. She said the motive for the killing remained unclear. “The suspect will appear before the Mbazwana Periodical Court tomorrow (Thursday) on a charge of murder,” Gwala said. She said it was heartbreaking to learn about the killing of a child in such a brutal manner as the country marked Child Protection Week. Child Protection Week runs from May 29 to June 5. “We are appealing to communities to play a more vital role in protecting our children. Any form of abuse directed to any child in our society should immediately be reported to the police or social workers,” Gwala said. Meanwhile, Social Development MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza extended her condolences to the Mthembu family in Bunganeni, Umhlabuyalingana, after the murder of two children. One-year-old Lwandile Nxumalo and his 9-year-old brother, Siphepholo Mthembu, were allegedly murdered by their mother, 29, on Monday. The department said that it was alleged that the mother forced her older son to drink a poisonous substance while the toddler was strangled to death with fence wire. It is believed the mother attempted to kill herself by drinking a poisonous substance, but was found alive and taken to hospital where she is under police guard. “We are taken aback by the brutal killing of innocent children. We would have preferred that the mother was able to share her challenges with social workers so that they can help her and her children. We are in so much pain for losing such innocent souls like this. There is no justification or whatsoever for the mother's act to kill her children like this,” Khoza said. Speaking on Child Protection Week, Khoza said: “During this time, we create awareness on children's rights and advocate for their protection. Protection of children is an everyday activity and acts of abusing and killing children will never be accepted by this government. We want to see all those involved in any form of child abuse punished.” Daily News