Durban – Organisers of the Newcastle Airshow have dubbed its 10th anniversary over the weekend a “soaring success” as it took flight. All the action of the show was centred at Newcastle Airport in northern KwaZulu-Natal on Saturday. Hosted by the Champ Group of Companies, in conjunction with Tourism KZN, it was the first show since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic and the only one in KZN. The show’s 10th anniversary made it extra-special. The Champ Group of Companies said guests on the day included dignitaries, sponsors, schoolchildren and the greater community, who took the opportunity to show their robust support to stall-holders and supporters. There was something for everyone, from biltong to boerie rolls, candy floss and mini-doughnuts, a fine display from the Newcastle Model Aircraft Club, plenty of aeroplane-themed goodies to buy as keepsakes, VIP tents, freshly-brewed coffee and children’s inflatables. It said that despite the busy, carnival-like atmosphere, what really stood out at this year’s airshow (apart from the flawless displays in the sky), was the attention to detail and thought put into organising an event of this scale and calibre. It also said that one guest was overheard saying: “What an incredible experience! This is the best-run event I’ve been to in years.” It said that the sentiment was echoed by many on the day, and not a smile slipped off a face as guests soaked up the unprecedented warm weather and shook off the stress of the week to enjoy the airshow. Taking readers back to the day, Champ Group of Companies director Johan Pieters said that the airshow started off with a flag drop of the biggest South African flag (27 x 18m and weighing in at 75kg), dropped from the blue sky by Ralph Ridge from the Vaal Dam. “It was an awesome display, followed by a remarkable show by two Hawks. The pair, operating out of Air Force Base Hoedspruit, showed their skill with a combat formation display that wowed the crowd,” Pieters said. He said that the Magni Gyro then took to the sky to show that it was not the size that counts, but the heart and skill it takes to put on an epic display. “The flying Lion in the Harvards showed some exciting and exhilarating aerobatic displays. In typical Air Wolf style, helicopter Bell 222 showed off its moves and took the crowd back to the popular 1984 television series, Airwolf,” he said. “The impressive RV-7 formation showed the gutsy display of the pilots, while the L-39 jet put on an amazing display, taking the aircraft through a variety of different manoeuvres in the sky.” Pieters added that guests were also entertained by the old Alouette II and the Boeing-Stearman. “It was a show with lots of adrenaline-pumping displays and the smell of Avgas and Jet A all around.” Pieters added that the airshow was well attended and packed to capacity. “The Champ Group of Companies truly shone this past weekend. The 10th Newcastle Airshow was an event that will be remembered for years to come!” “The Only Airshow in KZN has already set the date for 2023 – it will take place on June 3 next year. See you there!” Pieters said. Here are some highlights from the airshow over the weekend: Daily News