Durban - ANC heavyweights from across 11 KwaZulu-Natal regions have arrived in Nkandla for their solidarity visit to former president Jacob Zuma. Arriving in a convoy of around 20 expensive SUVs, the delegation which is estimated to be 120 in number first convened outside the home and they were later ushered into the gigantic rural home. Among the high-profile figures spotted in Nkandla was Zamo Nxumalo, the regional chairperson of the Harry Gwala region, Siphile Mdaka, the chairperson of the Far North, and his regional secretary, Verus Ngcamphalala. WATCH: Here are the cows brought by the ANC delegation visiting former President Jacob Zuma at his Nkandla home. @DailyNewsSA  #ZumaVisit pic.twitter.com/i1jIWNUcI8 Also part of the group was Dr Ntuthuko Mahlaba, the chairperson of the Mbuso Kubhela region (formerly eMalahleni) in Newcastle. The provincial ANC Women’s League was represented by its chairperson, Nonhlanhla Khoza (who is also the MEC for social development) and its provincial secretary, Nonhlanhla Gabela. Nxumalo said they would address the media after meeting with Zuma and his family. PHOTOS: Some of the ANC members waiting at the gates of the home of former President Jacob Zuma in Nkandla. Among them is Thobani Zuma, the former deputy mayor of Msunduzi (Pietermaritzburg). @DailyNewsSA #ZumaVisit pic.twitter.com/f46CNNRzOr “Let us be civic and we will address you later when we come out. We don’t want you (the media) to see us going in and out without saying anything,” Nxumalo said. On Monday, Mahlaba said the purpose of the visit was to show solidarity with the former head of state but denied that only the faction he is reportedly part of, the Taliban, was going to Nkandla. WATCH: ANC members from KZN regions have started arriving at the home of former President Jacob Zuma in Nkandla. The members want to show solidarity with Zuma and shower hom with gifts. @DailyNewsSA #ZumaVisit pic.twitter.com/RYIFpqMhuk “It is just to see him (Zuma); we want him not to feel isolated during this time. That is what the visit is all about. All the regions are involved, not just the Taliban (faction), all regions and leagues,” Mahlaba said. Under the Taliban faction, which has Bheki Mtolo (the current mayor of Kokstad) as its provincial secretary, Mahlaba is expected to contest the position of provincial chairperson against embattled Sihle Zikalala, Nomusa Dube-Ncube and businessman Sandile Zungu. On Thursday last week, Zuma’s rural home in northern KwaZulu-Natal was a hive of activity when his supporters hosted a well-organised solidarity prayer. The prayer was attended by over 5 000 supporters who mainly came from regions such as Musa Dladla, eThekwini, Mzala Nxumalo, General Gizenga Mpanza and Inkosi Bhambatha. Prominent people who attended it included outgoing ANC provincial chairperson Sihle Zikalala, Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane, former MEC Weziwe Thusi, Bishop Vusi Dube, the founder of eThekwini Community Church, and Ntando Khuzwayo, the spokesperson of Zandile Gumede’s supporters. Tuesday’s visit comes before the ANC in the province convenes its elective conference, billed for July 15-17 at a venue yet to be announced. sihle.mavuso@inl.co.za Daily News