Durban - The eThekwini Municipality will host the South Durban Business Fair this week at KwaMnyandu Shopping Centre in uMlazi. The fair kicks off on Friday, June 24, and ends on Sunday. The event makes a return this year after being put on hold due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It is one of the build-up events ahead of the main Durban Business Fair, which will take place later this year. eThekwini Municipality spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said that about 100 products would be showcased at the South regional fair to assist entrepreneurs generate income and build possible partnerships. He said the first day of the South Fair would feature business exhibitions running simultaneously with the Contractor Development Indaba. The indaba will be addressed by Sdumo Dlamini, deputy minister of the Small Business Development department. Mayisela added that key focus areas that would be discussed include funding opportunities presented by the Small Enterprise Finance Agency.  “As well as opportunities and capacity for emerging contractors presented by representatives from the Construction Industry Development Board, National Home Builders Registration Council, South African Forum of Civil Engineering Contractors and the South African National Roads Agency Limited.” Mayisela added that Youth would also be included in the Business Fair. “The Business Indaba, themed 'Youth Empowerment' to be held on 25 June, will present opportunities such as franchising, innovation, and partnership as a driver for township economic development, brand building and career positioning.” He said that on the last day of the fair, the Creative Industry Indaba would share insights and opportunities in the film and television industry. “Experienced industry role players such as casting directors, financiers and actors will be on-site leading a Youth and Film panel discussion as well as an open session for filmmakers.” Mayisela added that South African make-up artist Lwazi Blose would be leading make-up and beauty sessions at the Business Fair, while Flavours of Durban would offer culinary skills. THE MERCURY