Durban - Multi-disciplinary Economic Infrastructure Task Teams (EITTs) were launched by the deputy provincial police commissioner, Major-General Phumelele Makoba at the Durban Central police station on Monday. Some of the crimes that will be investigated are copper cable theft, damage to essential infrastructure and extortion on construction sites, among others. A SAPS statement said three teams were formed that will be dealing with economic infrastructure crimes. These teams will be based in the eThekwini, Umgungundlovu and King Cetshwayo Districts where these crimes are most prevalent. The teams consist of members from various disciplines in the SAPS, government departments, other law enforcement agencies, state-owned entities, cellular telephone providers and the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation. “EITTs will ensure the integration of operational processes, resources and intelligence across all operational environments of the SAPS under a single command in order to successfully address economic infrastructure- related crimes and extortion in a coherent and synergised manner,” said the SAPS. A focus will be placed on the following areas to address the scourge of economic infrastructure-related crimes: The SAPS said the launch follows the State of the Nation Address on February 10, 2022, where President Cyril Ramaphosa said the ongoing damage to and the theft of economic infrastructure had damaged confidence and severely constrained economic growth, investment and job creation. “At the same time, we need to confront the criminal gangs that invade construction sites and other business places to extort money from companies. This requires a focused and co-ordinated response,” said Ramaphosa during his address. During the launch, Makoba urged all role-players to work together in an integrated manner to stem the crimes and bring the perpetrators to book. “We are convinced that the perpetrators of these crimes are repeat offenders and we need to strike a blow to these criminal syndicates and bring an end to the theft and destruction of our essential infrastructure,” she said. THE MERCURY