Durban - Like the police, community policing forums (CPFs) and neighbourhood watches in eThekwini are on high alert ahead of the reported national shutdown on Friday. The ward 64 neighbourhood watch (NHW) said that due to the “potential national shutdown”, which they as a neighbourhood watch have not taken lightly, they will have patrollers out to assist should assistance be required and will contact all the necessary role-players should they be needed. The NHW called on its members to be alert but to remain calm. “We called for a meeting last night (Wednesday) to have a strategic plan in place should a potential threat arise. All law enforcement, security agencies, and neighbourhood watches in partnership with SAPS are ready to mobilise,” the NHW said. “We will be on standby from Thursday night and on call for our members and our community. We ask all of you to help us help you by being our additional eyes and ears, to report on the groups anything that you feel could possibly be a potential threat to our neighbourhood. “We have a dedicated WhatsApp number 069 421 6995 which is on standby 24 hours a day, seven days a week for you to use or you can post on the group if you need assistance.” On Wednesday, Umbilo CPF chairperson Calvin Thomas said they were working with the Umbilo SAPS to confirm and verify information related to the various social media postings of a national shutdown on Friday. Thomas said that as of 10pm on Wednesday, no party or organisation had been able to confirm anything. “Key stakeholders have been placed on high alert, and plans are being put in place should the need arise,” Thomas said. “We urge all residents and business owners to exercise calm and restraint and not share any unverified information on any social media platforms as this creates unnecessary panic and anxiety.” He added that as the Umbilo CPF, they would share any related information after confirmation from credible sources. Newlands CPF public relations officer Eugene Naidoo said that in light of the potential threat of unrest planned for Friday, they met with various stakeholders, in particular Newlands SAPS. Naidoo said the community needed to note that SAPS is aware of the potential threat of unrest and has assured them that they have measures in place should such instances arise. “We ask for all street committees, patrol groups and residents to be vigilant at this time,” Naidoo said. They also appealed to the public not to post any unverified info on the chats so as to minimise unnecessary panic. He said the Newlands CPF members would be liaising with SAPS and taking directive from them. “If you notice any suspicious activity during this time, please get hold of your sector leaders who will then escalate the matter further,” Naidoo said. Earlier, Durban North & Umhlanga CPF public relations officer Darryl Oliver said the CPF was working with SAPS and “relevant intelligence structures” to confirm and verify details and information pertaining to the proposed national shutdown. Oliver said nothing was firm or confirmed by any party, organisation or official organisers. “Nonetheless, all key role-players have contingency plans in place, however we do not anticipate or expect any major or severe disruptions,” Oliver said. They also called on residents not to share unverified posts but rather to contact their local CPF sector committee or security companies for updates and verified information. Daily News