DURBAN – The Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) said in a statement on Thursday that routes on its northern corridor are expected to return to service soon following disruptions due to the KwaZulu-Natal floods and vandalism. Andiswa Makanda, spokesperson for Prasa said that it is pleased to announce that services between Durban and Merebank resumed on Wednesday, 1 June 2022.  “A limited service using electric traction was reintroduced yesterday morning after the service was suspended due to the impact of the floods that destroyed the rail infrastructure.” Makanda added that final preparations are under way to restore services between Dalbridge and OThongathi, and KwaMashu and Dalbridge.  “The recovery of these lines forms part of our efforts to recover more services that were suspended either due to vandalism and theft or the floods that hit KwaZulu Natal recently. The lines on the north-coast corridor, owned and maintained by Transnet, have been rehabilitated and restored by Transnet for the reintroduction of services.” Makanda said that the work done to recover the services include repairing and installation of rail infrastructure and the removal of rubble following the floods that hit KZN.  “The resumption of services will be a huge relief to our commuters who rely on our cost-effective services. Metrorail is one of the most affordable and convenient modes of transport. “The recovery of these lines supports Prasa’s recovery programme and strategy of rebuilding the rail network corridor by corridor.” Makanda added that Prasa security is on high alert after threats of criminality and violence on some sections of the northern corridor.  “In the past three months, our signalling cables,  Overhead Traction Equipment (OHTE) and rail assets have been under constant attack by criminals. Just recently, about R3.5 million rand worth of station assets had been stolen and vandalised, and some of our peace officers attacked.” Makanda said that to date, several raids have been conducted with law enforcement agencies at nearby informal settlements.  “About 19 suspects have been arrested and are facing prosecution. Repairing and restoring the infrastructure comes at a huge cost to Prasa, hence additional security to protect the infrastructure will be deployed, once the work has been completed.  ”Measures have been put in place to mitigate further attacks on the rail infrastructure on that section of the network.” Makanda called for communities to report any suspicious activity on the rail network. THE MERCURY