Durban - The arrival of Mondli Khumalo’s family in the UK on Wednesday has had a positive impact on the cricketer as he can now stand up unaided and started catching a sponge ball.  He was said to be eating his meals since being hospitalised and there was progress with his speech and memory.  Khumalo’s mother Sibongile and uncle Sakhelephi were scheduled to arrive in the UK last Saturday, but their trip was delayed by passports, which were not immediately available. Last week the Sunday Tribune reported that the family only found out last Friday, a day before they were to catch a flight to the UK, that they were required to collect their passports personally at the Pietermaritzburg Home Affairs office. However, the office was already closed and the family were only able to collect their travel documents on Monday morning. It was the family’s first time travelling abroad but plans were made to have people stationed at respective airports to ensure they received the assistance needed and that they go to the correct places.  The 20-year-old bowler, on a shortterm contract at North Petherton Cricket Club, left the country in April and was due back in August.  Two weeks ago he was involved in an altercation with a 27-year-old man outside a pub, who allegedly headbutted him a few times and punched him in the head.  Khumalo suffered a brain injury and was placed in and out of an induced coma until he was stable. He had to undergo three critical operations which were only a few days apart.  The alleged perpetrator was arrested but released on a warning.  Jason Sathiaseelan, CEO of the KZN Inland Cricket Union, Khumalo’s local team, said having his family at his bedside was good for the youngster’s recovery. He said Khumalo was getting stronger by the day, but a long road to full recovery still lay before him. “He is getting better with each day.  “He recognised his family members and he was talking, but not too many words. On Thursday he was able to stand on his feet for the first time and his short-term memory is returning, which is a very positive sign,” said Sathiaseelan.  Khumalo’s UK teammate and friend, Lloyd Irish, who has been at his side since the incident, shared a video of the cricketer at the hospital where they played catch with a sponge ball. He praised Khumalo for his determination and resilience, saying his fast recovery was a surprise to everyone.  A few hours after he was admitted, Khumalo’s UK teammates and supporters started a crowdfunding campaign. The target was set at more than R9 million to assist with all necessary bills, including the family’s trip and stay in the UK. More than R490 000 has been raised so far. It was unclear when Khumalo would be discharged from hospital, but his local and UK teams were hoping to see him back in the field as soon as he recovers. SUNDAY TRIBUNE