Durban - Young people have described the unemployment as a “real struggle” facing the youth of today which has driven many into depression and stress. The unemployment rate is on an upward trajectory, with young people accounting for over 60% of unemployed people in the country. Statistics South African recently revealed that at least 370 000 jobs were created in the first quarter of this year. However, that seemed a drop in the ocean given the alarming statistics. As South Africa commemorates the sacrifice of the class of 1976 who stood up against apartheid, young people shared the struggles they faced today. Nompumelelo Dlomo, 26, of Umlazi is a journalism graduate, but is unemployed. She blamed the recruitment system, saying corruption was prevalent, depriving qualified young people jobs. “What seems to be the only way for the youth to survive in SA is to develop a business oriented mindset, so that, not only are they be able to generate their own income, but are also able to create employment for other youth,” she said. Sphamandla Mqadi, 30, from Inanda, has a degree in education and has a part-time teaching post in Johannesburg, and he says he’s given up. “I'm of the view that there is no future for the youth of SA.In the past we were sold the idea that the key to success was through education, but how many of the youth possess certificates, degrees etc and are still unemployed. With those youth counted as employed, the majority of them are working in sectors or doing jobs that they did not study for. But because of poverty, anything will do as long as it provides food on the table. Research shows that while the latest employment figures give some cause for optimism – some 370 000 jobs were created in the first quarter of this year – there is still a huge mountain to be climbed in the quest to create more jobs, especially for young people. According to Stats SA, youth unemployment in South Africa is at 66.5%. No society can expect to grow or thrive when the vast majority of its young people are out of work,“ he said. Mbuso Masuku 36, from Ntuzuma, is an e-hailing driver, and he said the country’s economy is not conducive to create sustainable jobs. “The influx of imports and Chinese product halt domestic production, the free markets system that ANC prides itself with free market system to boost investor confidence but it clashes with the mood on the ground, hence South Africa is a former colony which owes its duty to the marginalised natives who are now agitated for being a bystander of the economy in their own native land,” he said. Sihle Mkhize, 28, from Inanda, is an unemployed DUT graduate, and he believes that the stats were not a true reflection of the reality of unemployment. “We have a lot of unemployed graduates although jobs are being created, but most of those jobs most of the time are never tailored for the unemployed graduate, but it is good to see that there is improvement on the front of job creation for the youth,” he said. Snenhlanhla Gumede, 25, from Westville has an Honours Degree in Marketing, but is unemployed. She complained about nepotism in the public sector, claiming that only those “connected” are able to secure jobs in government. “I feel that our leaders are selfish and greedy with power and they don't want to let the youth come in with fresh ideas. This is the reason why SA is still far behind when it comes to bringing new innovations that will assist the country with the ever changing world,” she said. SUNDAY TRIBUNE