Durban — The eThekwini Municipality has indicated that Durban is gearing up for the Hollywoodbets Durban July,  set to take place on July 2 at the Greyville Racecourse. “Africa's greatest horse racing event injects over R300 million into the City’s economy and creates many opportunities in related value chains,” the municipality said. It said opportunities included emerging local fashion designers benefiting from the various development competitions under this year's theme “Show Me The Honey”. “The July experience will be extended to other areas outside the venue as numbers will be limited at the racecourse due to Covid-19 regulations. Join the celebrations at Magaba Lounge, Mojo's Carwash and Shisanyama, Max's Lifestyle, Under The Moon, and Maqaqa Lounge Lifestyle, for fashion displays, entertainment, and online betting,” the municipality said. Reacting to the post and the video on Facebook, residents felt there were much more important issues that the municipality needed to prioritise. Liz Jackson said the municipality should look forward to a small turnout as most holidaymakers avoid Durban because it was a “plague-ridden cesspit”. “Why has priority not been given to fixing or diverting sewage so that our waterways can be cleared and beach activity resumed?” Jackson asked. “We clearly have zero disaster plans judging by the confused lack of action by the city since April. Thank God for private efforts.” Adrian Appanna said the municipality should try getting water to residents first. Sitshupid Msha agreed and said people were struggling to get water but the municipality was focused on the Durban July. Andrina Masango asked the municipality to showcase Pinetown and areas close to Nazareth and Mariannhill, “with all its filthy glory”. “Let the full story be told... Litter everywhere, weeds growing into potholed and sandy roads, stench of urine, amid an ever-burning and rioting university community that victimises residents in their ongoing disgruntlement, the list is endless…” Masango said. Daily News