Durban - With the much anticipated elective conference of the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal almost a month away, branches still have three weeks to nominate their preferred candidates for the provincial top five. This was confirmed by the ANC in the province in a response to the Daily News enquiry about the matter.  The spokesperson of the ANC in the province, Nhlakanipho Ntombela, said the nomination process was still going on across the province. “End of June is the time frame which will be assessed as time goes by to determine whether you extend or not. Currently, there are no preliminary figures available (on who has been nominated),” Ntombela said. So far there are four dominant factions vying for power. One faction wants the current chairperson, Sihle Zikalala, to retain his position and his supporters are mainly found in the Far North region. Another faction wants Nomusa Dube-Ncube, the current provincial treasurer, to topple Zikalala and lead the province. Her supporters are mainly found in northern eThekwini, Mzala Nxumalo and the Lower South Coast regions. Another faction called the Taliban is led by Dr Ntuthuko Mahlaba, the chairperson of the ANC in the eMalahleni region (now called the Mbuso Kubheka region). The slate has roped in Bheki Mtolo, the mayor of Kokstad to contest as its provincial secretary. This faction is also courting Zandile Gumede to join its ranks as its provincial treasurer, but her supporters are wary of the offer, saying it may open a political vacuum and force a re-run in the ANC eThekwini region. The fourth faction is led by businessman Sandile Zungu. Although it is not clear which people he will work with, the Daily News understands that he has won over the RET faction which is sympathetic to former president Jacob Zuma. To a lesser extent, Nhlanhla Ngidi, the former director-general of the province, is expected to throw his hat into the ring. Ngidi is being lobbied by branches in the western eThekwini and Moses Mabhida region in the KwaZulu-Natal Midlands. sihle.mavuso@inl.co.za Daily News