Durban - Philanthropist and businessman Uebert Angel has silently donated over R2 million through his Uebert Angel Foundation to assist all those in need including victims of natural disasters in South Africa. In an interview with the Daily News, Angel, who is a British-Zimbabwean evangelical preacher and founder of Spirit Embassy, a Pentecostal ministry in the UK, and the Presidential Envoy and Ambassador at large of Zimbabwe to Europe and the Americas, said he believed that Africa needed to rise above hate and join hands to tackle poverty. “We have recently interacted with some organisations in South Africa and decided that we needed to intensify the fight against poverty by providing sustainable relief to the people through various interventions including scholarships.  “Among other organisations, Tanganani Foundation which has recently opened its offices in Durban and Johannesburg has received funding to provide food to the homeless people as well as those that are currently accommodated in some government shelters. We have given R150 000 to Uthando community development in Newlands East. We are doing the same in Johannesburg for people living in the informal settlements.” Angel said that he was aware of the many Zimbabweans living on the street, he said that he was working with some informal churches to identify those in need, especially the young children and support them.  He added: “I’m passionate about people attending school because education is the key to success and we do this quietly. As you can see, the people are struggling and we cannot sit around and not assist. It does not matter which part of Africa is affected, we all need to work together,” he said. Speaking on the xenophobic attack among the African people, Angel said: “As a Pan Africanist l believe that Africa is for all of us and every citizen of any African country should feel safe and secure anywhere. The African Union is currently working towards achieving regional integration, peace, and stability in all parts of Africa in pursuit of Agenda 2063. It is wrong and barbaric for any Group of people to kill an immigrant in the name of ”operation go back to your country”. “It is un-African and against the dictates of ubuntu which binds us as a people. l urge all African citizens to love, respect, and tolerate each other as we are each other’s keepers. No single country or person can succeed alone, we need God and we need good people. l extend my deepest and heartfelt condolences to the family of Elvis Nyathi and other victims of this diabolic operation,” he said. Asked about the rise of false prophets and the use of Christianity to scam and defraud people, he said: “I am void of personal opinions where God’s name is mentioned, but what I do know is that Prophecy is a God’s calling, you don’t just wake up, open a church and say you want to be a prophet. Furthermore, he mentioned that his organisation was currently in talks with other organisations in both the west and Asian countries to try and persuade them to invest in the lives of Africans and help bring much-needed aid and scholarships to the African youth. Daily News