Durban - A video has emerged of a car belonging to the Msunduzi Municipality being misused to perform drag-racing-like stunts. A voice-over on the recording can be heard saying, “this is a municipal car that is being misused in this manner by the city’s employees”. Also on the recording, others can be heard cheering as the car is spun around in a drag-racing stunt. The municipality said it is aware of the video that is circulating on social media platforms. An investigation has been conducted and disciplinary processes are being implemented in line with the disciplinary collective agreement, it said.  This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Municipal spokesperson Ntobeko Mkhize warned that any employee involved in the misuse of municipal vehicles will face sanctions.  “The municipal vehicles are to be solely utilised to discharge the municipality’s responsibilities for the benefit of its stakeholders. “The municipality condemns this incident. We are appealing to anyone who witnesses any inappropriate behaviour by municipal employees to report immediately. “The municipality will not hesitate to act where employees abuse council property; that is against the code of conduct, and therefore such misconduct will never be condoned as it puts the municipality into disrepute,” she said. ACDP councillor Rienus Niemand in Msunduzi said the municipal manager reported at council (on Wednesday) that she will make a decision as to disciplinary action.  “Road stunts and drag racing cannot under any circumstances be condoned and should never be glorified for obvious reasons of public safety, teaching our children acceptable behaviour and respect for the law in the interest of order,” said Niemand.  There have been many instances recently in which council officials have been caught misusing council vehicles. An employee in eThekwini Municipality is facing the axe after the being recorded drinking in a municipal vehicle. The employee is being taken through a disciplinary process. THE MERCURY