Durban - A timely intervention by KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Health, Nomagugu Simelane, reportedly averted a brutal fist fight between Premier Sihle Zikalala and a fervent Jacob Zuma supporter. Zikalala is alleged to have nearly exchanged blows with Ngizwe Mchunu, a former Ukhozi FM presenter, who has become one of the chief supporters and defenders of Zuma in the past few years. According to seven eyewitnesses (their versions vary) who spoke to the Daily News on Sunday morning, the incident happened late on Saturday at Moses Mabhida Stadium’s People’s Park. This was during a Zulu cultural festival known as Ingoma KaZwelonke (a traditional dance festival). It is alleged that Mchunu who appeared to be drunk and was causing trouble, wanted to greet Zikalala while he was sitting in one of the VVIP marquees where even Zulu King, Misuzulu KaZwelithini, was housed. NEWS: KZN Premier, Sihle Zikalala nearly exchanged blows with former Ukhozi FM presenter, Ngizwe Mchunu. The incident happened in one of the VVIP marquees during the Ingoma Kazwelonke festival at Moses Mabhida stadium in Durban. Mchunu is known for insulting Zikalala. @DailyNews Zikalala, whom eyewitnesses claim appeared to be a bit drunk as well, reportedly elbowed Mchunu’s hand, thus angering him. An annoyed Mchunu is said to have caused a scene, thus pitting himself against Zikalala and they were about to exchange blows when Simelane separated them. “It was a dramatic scene in full view of everyone in the marquee. People turned their attention to the incident because it was full of drama with Ngizwe shouting at Zikalala at the top of his voice,” one source said. Mchunu is alleged to have even threatened to open a criminal case against Zikalala with the SAPS. “Ngizwe did not back down, causing a scene. At some point, he asked to be escorted to the police to open a case. He said he fears for his life, hence the need for him to be escorted,” said an eyewitness. However, others claim that Zikalala did hit Mchunu, hence the fracas. “Zikalala threw a punch at Mchunu, hence he wanted to press assault charges,” said another eyewitness. UPDATE: Ngizwe Mchunu has confirmed to the @DailyNewsSA that he has pressed assault charges KZN Premier, Sihle Zikalala, for allegedly assaulting him last night. He claims that Zikalala was a bit drunk during the incident. Zikalala is yet to provide his side of the story. Mchunu claimed that Zikalala assaulted him, hence his decision to lay assault charges at Durban Central Police Station. “He assaulted me and I don’t know why because all was well between us. I was next to him and he said what do you want from me and he then hit me with a fist. I fell down. One of his PAs said the chairperson must be forgiven because he is a bit drunk,” Mchunu claimed.  Mchunu is known for publicly insulting Zikalala and the last insult was hurled at Zikalala during the Jacob Zuma solidarity prayer at Nkandla on Thursday. While on stage during the prayer, Mchunu indirectly implied that Zikalala would not be re-elected as the chairperson of the ANC in the province. There is also a trending video of Mchunu where he is seen hurling insults at Zikalala while watching him on TV. In the trending TikTok video, Mchunu calls Zikalala a dog. “You Zikalala, you are a dog, I hate you,” Mchunu is seen repeatedly saying in the video while pointing at Zikalala who was speaking live on TV. Zikalala is understood to have instructed his lawyers to restrain Mchunu from hurling insults at him. UPDATE: KZN Premier, Sihle Zikalala, has also opened a case assault and crimen injuria against former Ukhozi FM presenter, Ngizwe Mchunu. He says Mchunu, without provocation, hurled insults at him at Moses Mabhida stadium in Durban yesterday. @DailyNewsSA KwaZulu-Natal provincial government spokesperson Lennox Mabaso said Zikalala has opened a criminal case at the Durban Central police station against Mchunu for assault and crimen injuria after the incident. Mabaso said that there has been a series of recent episodes during which Mchunu hurled verbal abuse and invectives at Zikalala without justification or provocation. “In continuation of this widely publicised mode of attack on the Premier, yesterday (Saturday) Mr Mchunu escalated this when he came over to the exclusive area where the Premier was seated, and started hurling insults at the Premier. As a result, people nearby had to intervene. With the aid of security personnel the Premier had to leave the event.” “As a public servant and private individual, the Premier reserves all rights applicable to him in terms of our Constitution. In this regard the Premier stands ready and is duty bound to exhaust all legal avenues to protect himself and the dignity of the office he occupies from unscrupulous and unwarranted attacks by individuals such as Mr Mchunu,” Mabaso said. sihle.mavuso@inl.co.za Daily News