Durban - Following weeks of fatal road crashes, the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Transport has called for responsible driving as most visitors and holidaymakers will descend on the province ahead of the Hollywoodbets Durban July this weekend. The department said that during this period and event there is an influx of people who use main roads, including the N3 and N2 to Durban. These are mostly visitors from neighbouring provinces and other parts of the province. It cautioned motorists to take extra responsibility and exercise extra vigilance as most roads were damaged in the recent floods, causing congestion and delays. Some roads’ lanes have narrowed while other roads have developed potholes due to the torrential rains. There is also a lot of construction taking place as part of the provincial post-flood reconstruction and recovery plan. The department said that the provincial government, working with the SA National Road Agency SOC Limited (Sanral), has developed a clear traffic management plan to address the issue of traffic and congestion on the N3. The plan seeks to respond to the spate of accidents that continue to take place on the N3 Peter Brown, which involve a lot of heavy vehicles. “The plan includes installation of cameras to monitor traffic, deploying traffic police to assist, compulsory stop and enforcement for heavy vehicles, deploying technology and mobile robots to manage traffic control,” the department said. It said Sanral has also activated its Traffic Management Centre in Mkondeni to ensure effective monitoring of the traffic and prompt interventions where necessary. The province has also requested additional deployment of traffic officers from the Road Traffic Management Corporation and the deployment of National Traffic Police. Municipal traffic has also been engaged to work with the Road Traffic Inspectorate to monitor other strategic roads and mount intense operations. Transport head Siboniso Mbhele said the rise of accidents on the N3 was a serious concern and motorists needed to be responsible. “The Durban July weekend is always associated with high traffic volumes. We appeal to motorists to be extra careful and leave early to their destinations. There are many areas that are affected by the floods, including the N2 in uMgababa, N2 uMhlanga River Bridge and N2 uMhlali Bridge. M4 and R102, which are alternatives to N2, have parts that are still closed due to sinkholes caused by floods. The challenge on N3 Peter Brown is receiving our attention. We have a joint traffic-monitoring team that is working with Sanral to avert further loss of lives on the stretch of road,” Mbhele said. The department said that operations will be targeting drinking and driving, excessive speeding and driving without proper documentation. Daily News