Durban — The eThekwini Fire and Emergency Services Unit austerity budget cuts led to a saving of R2.1 million. This was brought up during the eThekwini Municipality Executive Committee (Exco) meeting on Tuesday when the finance, security and emergency services committee presented their report on the adjustment budget for the 2021/2022 financial year. The committee sought approval for the reprioritisation of the capital budget for 2021/2022 in the unit. The unit was allocated R30 908 000 for capital projects to develop new infrastructure and rehabilitate and upgrade existing facilities. The budget catered for projects of a capital nature for special equipment for firefighting, specialised vehicles and essential furniture and equipment in compliance with the Occupational Health and Safety requirements. The report stated that the original budget was reprioritised in line with the anticipated spend base on information pertaining to procurement status and projected cash flows available at the time of submission. Subsequent developments necessitated further amendments as a result of the unit reassessing all capital projects and approvals sought to transfer funds to specific projects critical to service delivery. The budget was reduced to approximately R9 million during the mid-term adjustment budget. However following a review by Architectural Services of invoices received for processing end of March 2022, it became evident that actual spending would be lower than anticipated and further adjustments required, therefore, the savings realised from these adjustments are to be utilised to offset expenses which will be incurred as a consequence of awards finalised post the adjustment budget submission. The report stated that the remaining surplus would be reprioritised and redirected to other projects requiring additional funding. The committee sought authority to continue with implementation and completion at local stations. The fire training facility’s revised budget is R1.4m. Jacobs, Chatsworth, Phoenix and Umlazi will receive R25 0000 each. Spending on new machinery, transport assets and new computer equipment is estimated at R1.5m. Daily News