Durban — While the eThekwini Municipality was preparing for its first Durban Tourism Business’ Awards, it had already scooped up awards of its own in the prestigious 2022 Fulton Awards. The municipality recently revealed that its Engineering Unit won three awards during the awards held in Johannesburg on June 10. “The projects that received the awards were the Durban Essex Terrace/M13 Bridge widening, modification of the Umhlatuzana River Bridge and the Ashton Arch bridge,” the municipality said. It said the awards are held every two years and they recognise and honour “excellence in the design, use and innovation in concrete”. The Umhlatuzana River Bridge Modification won under the category of Infrastructure up to R100 Million Value. The judges’ citation stated that the project in eThekwini demonstrated the surprising extent to which a large, continuous, prestressed concrete bridge could be partially dismantled, modified from the original design, and rebuilt. Under the same category and the category of Innovation & Invention In Concrete, the Essex Terrace/M13 Bridge Modification received a commendation. The judges’ citation said the project used several experimental solutions to support a design rationale that directly addressed sustainability concerns. It also involved some boldly progressive and effective responses to the aesthetic challenges associated with the modification of an existing structure. The Cornubia Boulevard Bridge Project, Emoyeni Reservoir and eZimbokodweni Pipe and Pedestrian Bridge were also entered for the 2022 Fulton Awards. In 2019, the 90A Bellmont in uMdloti and House La Lucia were winners in 2019. On Facebook, Smanga was’Embo Mkhize said: “I'm so proud of my close colleagues from the Road Provision-Structures branch for scooping these awards, they have been doing it since 2017. They represented us very well.” Sindy Olive Mbele said: “We are beaming with pride, these guys always bring their A-game. Congratulations are in order, we are now crossing fingers for their international award entry.” Deevanayagie Moodley congratulated the team and said that there were skilled and dedicated workers in the eThekwini Municipality. However, some focused on the work that still needed to be done following April’s heavy rains that resulted in flooding. Lavine Chinsamy asked the municipality to send the team to oThongathi, north of Durban, to help the SANDF expedite the two bridges on the M4 between uMdloti, Seatides and Zimbali. “I am sure they can add value to our pain of travelling all the way on the N2.” Belinda Simpson also asked the municipality to send the team to the Coedmore Bridge in Yellowwood Park, south of Durban. “I am sure they can make a positive impact on our situation and relieve the distance travelled to Higginson Highway to make a living outside Yellowwood Park.” Daily News