Durban - Former eThekwini Municipality Speaker and deputy mayor-turned-comedian, Logie Naidoo, has made a comeback in the public services after he was appointed as board member of the state-owned KZN Ezemvelo Wildlife. Naidoo who served in eThekwini for over 20 years -  two terms as deputy mayor and two as a speaker confirmed his appointment on Thursday. He was appointed by Ravi Pillay, MEC for KZN Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, when he named 12 board members to provide oversight of the nature reserve entity under his department. Naidoo became a popular politician in Durban attending various social gatherings on behalf of the city before he ventured into comedy after he retired in 2016. He does stand-up comedy and funny videos on social media. He has also been featured in sitcoms films.  Reacting on his appointment, Naidoo said although he retired as a councillor, he had been working for the community. He said he would draw on his experiences to revive the troubled nature conversation entity that had been crippled by corruption. “Comedy is my passion, I do not make money out of it. In most cases all the money I do, I donate to community-based organisations as a give-back to the community. I am very busy on the water issue for the community of Tongaat, helping the flood victims that have been housed in temporary structures,” he said. Naidoo said during his tenure as a leader in the municipality, he chaired various economic development committees and was directly involved in the establishment of the city’s iconic infrastructures - such as the Moses Mabhida Stadium, the Point Waterfront and Umhlanga town. He said he would use his experiences to bring stability to Ezemvelo. “My appointment as a board member will give me an opportunity to play a part in the protection and preserving nature. Tourism is a critical part of the economy and Ezemvelo is at the centre of our tourism. My vision with other board members is to make Ezemvelo a world-class organisation taking care of nature and attracting tourists,” he said. Naidoo said he was looking forward to the inaugural meeting of the board where they will paint the chair. Naidoo said he would continue with his comedy. While Naidoo was happy about his appointment, the DA said it was stunned. Heinz de Boer, DA spokesperson on economic development and environmental affairs,  said  Naidoo being dragged out of the political wilderness and appointed to the board was a shocking about-turn. Apart from Naidoo, former ANC Legislature Speaker Lydia Johnson will chair the board while another ANC up-and-coming youth leader, Njabulo Mtolo, will also join the board The DA is stunned at the stance taken by MEC Pillay in appointing these board members, saying that  politics had got the better of his judgment and that he had also potentially ruined an opportunity to pull the beleaguered entity out of the ashes. “Suggestions from the DA, that people with extensive conservation experience dominate the board, have largely been ignored  - as was the recommendation that a member of the hospitality sector is appointed to fast-track EKZNW’s long-awaited plan to outsource its hospitality division,” said De Boer. SUNDAY TRIBUNE