WHEN a Durban woman heard about the death of a toddler, who was allegedly beaten repeatedly with a rolling pin and strangled by her biological mother, she feared it was a child she had raised. Fadilah Chantel Kok, who would have turned 3 later this month, was found dead in a flat on Dr Yusuf Dadoo (formerly Grey) Street, Durban, on Tuesday. Her death comes at a time when the National Child Protection week was being observed. Stephanie Jamieson, who fostered Chantel since she was 3 weeks old until she recently returned the child to her mother Teneil Ursula Kok, said she was “devastated” when she learnt about her death. “She was like my own child. Everyone knew Chantel to be a happy, friendly and a loved while she was in my care.” Jaimeson said Chantel suffered a “horrendous” death. Kok, 33, was charged with murder when she appeared briefly at the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Thursday. Chantel was placed in Jamieson’s care when she was 3 weeks old, as Kok struggled to cope with a “crying baby”. Jamieson recently got seriously ill and became unable to care for the child. Chantel was back in her mother’s custody for the past two months when the alleged beating happened, which was apparently witnessed by two children (9 and 1) from her mother’s other romantic relationships. Kok appeared before Magistrate Vanitha Armu. Prosecutor Calvin Govender asked that the matter be adjourned to tomorrow and indicated that the State intended to have Kok undergo a mental assessment. Armu granted the request. It was believed that Kok had visited a clinic in the Overport area with the 1-year-old on Tuesday, while Chantel and the eldest child remained in the flat. Kok was angered when she returned and noticed that Chantel had urinated in the house. The mother then bathed the child in cold water before dressing her. Chantel was asked by Kok to jump into the toilet pan and when she refused, the assault began. The child was allegedly hit repeatedly on her head and face with a rolling pin before her mother strangled her until she stopped crying. Kok then dumped the child on the floor and covered her with a blanket. Jamieson, a stay-at-home mother, with adult children, has for many years helped a Durban-based women’s shelter with fostering children. Chantel came into her care, via the same shelter. “The manager of the shelter asked me to help Kok, who was unable to deal with a crying baby. “I met the mother during the handover and we reached an agreement that I would care for the child until she was 3.” Jamieson said in that period, she called Kok on numerous occasions about taking Chantel home for weekends or holidays. “I used to say you need to bond with the child, but she was not interested,” Jamieson claimed. In March, Jamieson experienced heart failure and was forced into a lengthy stay in an intensive care unit. “I told the mother I couldn’t keep Chantel because of my heart condition and that the child needed to attend crèche and also be with her mother.” Jamieson said she cared for Chantel like her own child . “She had her own bedroom at my place and when she went back to her mother, I sent her clothes, toys and food.” But since the child was returned, Jamieson claimed that Kok “wouldn’t tell me anything about the Chantel”. During one of their telephonic conversations, Kok allegedly told Jamieson: “Stop being a nuisance and bugging me.” Kok apparently blocked Jamieson’s number thereafter. However, on Wednesday, Jamieson said Kok sent her a text message, informing her that the child was dead. “I kept trying to call her but I couldn’t get through. I didn’t know that she was arrested.” A family friend told Jamieson that there was a media report circulating online about a child that was beaten to death. “I suspected it was Chantel. I got confirmation when I called the police.” Jamieson said she then received a call from wherever Kok was detained. “All she cared to tell me was that she wasn’t living in Pietermaritzburg as she had indicated previously, but that she was living in Durban the whole time.” Jamieson attended Thursday’s court proceedings, and was seated in the gallery behind Kok, who was in the dock. She called out to Kok. When their eyes locked, Jamieson said Kok was shocked to see her. “I told her she must rot in hell. She turned around quickly and covered her head with a scarf.  “Chantel didn’t deserve that. All I want is justice for the child,” said Jamieson.  SUNDAY TRIBUNE