Durban - Cricketer Mondli Khumalo’s family should have been on a plane to the UK on Saturday but they have been delayed by passports which they can only collect from the Pietermaritzburg Home Affairs office on Monday. Khumalo, who is a KZN Inland Cricket Union bowler, has been in the Southmead Hospital ICU in Bristol since he was attacked in the early hours of last Sunday. He has undergone three brain operations, and moved his legs for the first time on Thursday. The-20-year-old from Umlazi and former Michaelhouse pupil was on a short term contract to play for North Petherton Cricket Club.  He left the country in April and was due back in August. Following a match on Saturday last week, the team went to a pub to watch the Champions League soccer match between Liverpool and Real Madrid. Once the match was over, his teammates made their way home while he took a walk to catch a taxi. It was then that he got into an altercation with a 27-year-old man who allegedly headbutted him a few times and punched him in the head.  When Khumalo lost consciousness he fell backwards and hit his head on the ground.  KZN Inland Cricket Union CEO Jason Sathiaseelan told the Sunday Tribune they had only found out on Friday that Khumalo’s mother and uncle were required to collect their passports themselves from the Pietermaritzburg Home Affairs office. “That has delayed our process because it is not what we had been promised initially. The Home Affairs office is closed on a Saturday, so we have to take them to Pietermaritzburg from Durban on Monday to collect the passports.  “They will get their visas done in Durban and on Tuesday morning we will be flying them up to Johannesburg so that the visas can be issued. Then on Tuesday afternoon they will be flying to the UK,” Sathiaseelan said.  “An investigation into the matter is still ongoing. We know that police are still viewing cellphone footage to determine whether there are other perpetrators. We have been assured that the police are definitely taking the matter seriously, especially because it has gone global.  Everybody will be watching to see what happens to the perpetrator,” he said. Khumalo’s UK teammates and supporters have started a crowdfunding campaign with a target of about R10 million. So far a little over R400 000 has been raised.  Sathiaseelan said the government had not provided any financial assistance and that so far the money required had come from them. “His club overseas has also been very supportive. They want to assist with the air tickets and that’s what the crowdfunding will be used for.  All the people who will be assisting with air tickets and accommodation will be reimbursed from the crowdfunding,” he said.  Cricket South Africa board chairperson Lawson Naidoo said they unreservedly condemned the assault.  “We are, however, encouraged by the quick action of the UK authorities in apprehending the suspect who committed this ghastly act. “On behalf of the board, I wish Mondli a speedy recovery and return to the playing field,” he said. SUNDAY TRIBUNE