Durban - The African Freedom Revolution party leader Bishop Bheki Ngcobo and gender-based-violence activist Hlengiwe Buthelezi have urged lower south coast and Eastern Cape police to search for a man who appeared on a video clip beating a woman relative with a stick.  In a 30-second video that is circulating on social media a man who appeared to be younger than his victim is seen repeatedly beating a woman with a stick on the head and on the body.  It looks like the woman is the perpetrator's mother or an aunt and was calming him down for some argument he had with other people because in the background the woman is heard saying “you better beat me” and the man hit her repeatedly. Ngcobo who is the one that gave the video to the Daily News called on the police and the nearby community leaders to trace down the family to find out what actually happened and how the fight ended.  He said he was shocked to see such a cruel incident where a man is seen attacking a defenceless woman in that manner, saying his organisation would write a letter to the Eastern Cape provincial commissioner seeking clarity on whether there was action taken already and if not call on him to launch an investigation. “Our AFR office will write a letter to the the Eastern Cape Police Commissioner to check the incident and see if the case was opened against this young man and we also task our AFR patriots to check where this incident took place. I feel women and children are not safe in South Africa under this democratic dispensation. We need a Theocratic Godly Government to take over and ensure that all people abide by the law and amend the current Constitution which opens gaps of safety and provide rights to offenders of crime,” said Ngcobo. He said that it was time for citizens to enforce the law with or without police assistance. Buthelezi also expressed her shock at the incident and promised to activate other activists to look for the victim to find out whether the matter was reported to the police.  She said the problem was that it is not clear where the incident happened but believes it is either in the Eastern Cape or somewhere on the lower south coast of KwaZulu-Natal because of the Xhosa language that is spoken by both the victim and the perpetrator. Daily News