Durban - Durban’s Kaitlyn Leigh Ramduth, 16, this week took to the tennis courts of Egypt playing in the African Junior Teams Championships.  The event is a qualifier for the 2022 Junior World Championships and the Junior Billie Jean King Cup Tournament.  Ramduth had qualified for the African Junior Teams Championships when she represented South Africa in Zimbabwe in May in the Under-16 and took first place. While tennis may be a sport for some, the Glenwood resident said it was something she lived by. Ramduth who would be returning home on Sunday, she said playing in Egypt was a thrilling experience. “This opportunity to me is a dream come true, another milestone in my career and another step towards reaching my dream of winning the Grand Slams, the US Open and Wimbledon. I believe that if it is going to be, it is up to me. I am so grateful to be part of the SA Team and showcase how extremely talented our South African players are,” said Ramduth. She said her love for tennis grew at a young age. “From the time I picked up a racket at 6-years-old, I have loved being on the court and have never looked back. Every level posed a new challenge but my passion for the sport accompanied by the natural skill I found inside me, motivated me to want to develop that skill and become better every day.  Tennis for me is freedom. On the court I can express myself, to exhibit my love for this challenging but super friendly sport where I meet and befriend people from all over SA and even internationally,” she said. Ramduth’s next challenge would be when she plays in the Tennis South Africa Junior International tournaments held in July and August – hosted by her school, Curro Hillcrest. “I cannot express how excited I am. I am honoured to be part of such a prestigious event which will see players from all over the world coming together to compete.  This event is a Grade A tournament so it will be extremely challenging for all players. We are expecting the best Under-18 players from around the world to be participating but I intend to put my ‘A-game’ on as well. I am looking forward to it,” said Ramduth. She said discipline had helped her overcome her challenges. “I think that every committed athlete faces the mental and physical challenges of training and discipline that is required to do your best and for me it is no different.  However, the one thing that I can say has been a hurdle, is the mindset of people when they look at my petite frame and make assumptions that I don't have the strength and skill required to win and I love to prove them wrong because it is not about what you see, it's about what you don't,” she said. SUNDAY TRIBUNE