Durban - eThekwini Municipality announced that the roadworks around the multimillion-rand oThongathi Mall development will begin in June. The oThongathi Mall development is scheduled to open its doors at the end of 2022 and all upgrades and roadworks are expected to take about six months to complete. The city appealed to the community to be patient while upgrades to the R102 take place. “The roadworks during the upgrade are expected to include the narrowing of the R102 from three lanes to two in portions. All necessary traffic safety measures will be observed. “The roadworks and upgrades along the R102 will be from Coronation Road to Ganie Street and will also entail the length of Wadd Place to the west of the R102. “It will also include the widening of the R102 Gopalall Hurbans Road in the oThongathi central business district.” The municipality advised residents that the roadworks will require the relocation of existing underground services, such as electrical, water and communication cables. “A traffic management plan will be issued to the civil contractor appointed to complete the road upgrades.” The city warned motorists and pedestrians to take extra precautions in the construction vicinity and to obey all temporary construction signs. The final upgrades will include: “The new 18 000m² retail development is expected to boost the economy and create job opportunities for residents in the north. “A new shopping experience with a myriad of shopping options in a secured space will also be provided. oThongathi Mall will offer a first-class shopping experience with unique opportunities and services previously not available in oThongathi.” According to the city, the roadworks are being funded by the owner of the proposed new retail development, oThongathi Mall. The developers have indicated that Checkers and Shoprite, as well as a McDonald’s Drive-thru, will be anchor tenants at the mall. Some of the other national brands are Clicks, Ackermans, Pep, FNB, Absa, Spur, Bradlows and Sleepmasters. THE MERCURY