DURBAN - THE eThekwini Municipality has raised its concern about attacks on its employees when they are attending to service delivery issues in communities. In a statement, the municipality urged communities to refrain from attacking its staff after yet another incident in KwaMashu recently. The attacks on city workers is a serious concern as The Mercury revealed recently that the city was incurring huge costs to provide security to escort workers from the water department who go out to attend to water outages. The municipality said the workers are attacked, and sometimes they are hijacked. The security concerns are so serious that the city officials said they sometimes don't respond to night calls in certain areas for fear of being attacked. The city said it is appealing to members of the public to refrain from attacking its personnel when they are attending to reported water and electricity outages. “In a recent incident, municipal employees were attacked in KwaMashu when the area was experiencing a power outage,” it said. “The city would like to point out that most of these outages, especially in townships, are largely caused by cable theft and illegal connections. This puts a strain on the infrastructure, resulting in constant outages.  “There have been incidents where transformers have burst, causing a serious threat to lives.” Acting city manager Musa Mbhele condemned the attacks.  “Community leaders must rise to the occasion and clamp down on this unbecoming behaviour. Failure of which would result in the city being unable to discharge its responsibilities. This will be to the detriment of law-abiding citizens. “We are doing everything possible to meet the needs of our communities. There is no amount of frustration or anger that can justify this violence being meted out to our employees. “Why do we even have to provide security personnel for our staff to attend to these faults when they are there to return the situation to normalcy. We are appealing to community leaders to assist us in this regard. This has been ongoing for quite some time, and working together, we need to isolate these rogue individuals in our communities,” he said. THE MERCURY