DURBAN - One suspect is still on the run after a shoot-out on the Higginson Highway in Chatsworth yesterday. The road was closed for several hours after four suspected armed robbers were killed in a shoot-out with a security company after a high-speed chase along the N2. A fifth suspect was injured while another fled the scene. Marshall Security spokesperson Tyron Powell said its Special Operation Team members were alerted to a white Mercedes-Benz with six armed suspects that were involved in a shooting incident with a security company in Morningside just before midday. “Our members then spotted the wanted vehicle driving on the N2 southbound and they immediately pursued. When the suspects noticed our team members they opened fire and a high-speed chase proceeded on the N2 south.” Powell said that during the chase, the suspects continued to “shoot at our members”. “As the suspects approached the Higginson Highway off-ramp, they lost control of the vehicle and crashed into a truck. They immediately exited the vehicle and opened fire on our Special Operation Team members. “Our members returned fire, during which three suspects were shot dead and one was wounded. Two suspects fled the scene on foot, and one was later found deceased on the N2 north-bound after the M1 off-ramp after succumbing to his injuries. The other suspect still remains at large.” Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said preliminary investigations conducted at the scene revealed that the suspects’ vehicle was used in a number of robberies in Durban and Richards Bay. She said police officers from the K9 Unit, Airwing and other role-players had also been involved in the pursuit of the suspects. “During the exchange of gunfire, four suspects were fatally wounded. Three pistols were seized from suspects. The fifth suspect was taken to hospital where he is under police guard. “The vehicle (recovered from the suspects) was hijacked in Pinetown during December 2021. Signal jamming devices were also found inside the suspects’ vehicle. One of the suspects managed to flee the scene and is still being sought by police,” said Gwala.  She said that inquest dockets along with charges of attempted murder, unlawful possession of firearms and possession of a stolen vehicle were being investigated by Chatsworth SAPS. THE MERCURY