DURBAN - This year 67 Blankets for Nelson Mandela Day has partnered with the Gift of the Givers to celebrate the compassion and resilience of South Africans through a tough two years of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdowns, .  In a statement on its Facebook page, 67 Blankets founder, Carolyn Steyn said the thousands of blankets being made by the ‘KnitWits for Madiba’ for the #RainbowNationBlanketOfHope would be displayed on May 11 at Steyn City School.  Thereafter the blankets will be given directly to Gift of the Givers to distribute to needy communities in the country. Steyn said: “We are proud and extremely honoured to be partnering with Gift of the Givers this year, who have truly shown their mettle over the years, providing much needed aid to the poor and vulnerable.  “Under the leadership of Dr Imtiaz Sooliman they have been on the frontline of providing relief to millions, not just in South Africa but globally.” “The gift of hope is the biggest gift we can give South Africans during this time of uncertainty,” added Steyn. Sooliman, said Gift of the Givers appreciated the partnership with 67 Blankets for Mandela as it embodied the concept of active citizenry and selflessness.  “A blanket is a symbol of hope, bringing warmth, comfort, ease and unconditional love when knitted by a complete stranger for a fellow national. This altruistic action by those who encourage, promote, knit and sponsor the campaign is in essence an act of deep spirituality for the greater good providing a better life for all in keeping with the ethos of Mandela Day and what the late president epitomised." For those who want to be involved, the organisation said the due date for the blankets was the end of this month. “South Africans are invited to rally together to help create the Rainbow Nation Blanket of Hope, knitting or crocheting blankets of any size, in bright, vivid, rainbow colours to evoke the warm and generous spirit of our rainbow nation. You have until the end of March 2022 to get those needles and hooks clicking away to hand in your blankets.”  For more information, go to http://67blankets.co.za or email info@67blankets.co.za THE MERCURY