DURBAN - A Newlands East family is mourning the death of their 17-year-old son who died in hospital after he was shot in suspected gang violence or drug-related shooting. On Tuesday night, reports and condolences flooded Newlands East Facebook pages that a shooting had taken place on Barracuda Road and Pilchard Place. Reports suggest three people, two teenagers and an adult were shot. This morning, reports suggested one teenager and an adult died. In a Facebook post, Shenette Mestros, the teen’s sister, said at 10.40pm, her family lost a good child, her younger brother, Dawite Mekonnen, who was a victim of a drive-by shooting. “My brother had no dealings with drugs however because he was at the wrong place and at the wrong time he got shot six times in the back because he was trying to run away,” read the post. Mestros thanked those who rushed her brother to Lenmed Ethekwini Hospital & Heart Centre where he was pronounced dead on arrival. “Had he survived he would have been paralysed,” the post continued. “My mother Alice Veronica Mekonnen is now mourning the death of her only son who fell victim to a drug gang shooting. “My heart is heavy with emotions as I have no clue how to deal with his death. He was the only boy among three girls. He made a promise to my mother that he will finish school and become a chef. However, this will not happen as his life was taken away from him by an AK47 bullet. He lost a lot of blood as the bullets were too much in his body. As a mother, I have no idea what my mom is going through and it hasn’t registered as yet that she lost her only son. Rip Dawite. My lil brother. Till we meet again.” She added #gangviolencemustfall. In another Facebook post, Mestros said their mother, who is turning 60 on Thursday, will have to bury her only son. Another Facebook report from a woman said: “...Our children are dying…” Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said it was alleged at 10pm on Tuesday, three people aged between 15 and 25 were standing outside a tuckshop on Barracuda Road in Newlands East when they were shot by unknown people. They were rushed to hospital where a 15-year-old succumbed to his injuries on arrival. “Charges of murder and attempted murder were opened at Newlands East police station for investigation,” Gwala said. Newlands East community policing forum (CPF) chairperson Dr Thomas Jafta said gang-related and drug-related shootings were becoming common in Newlands. “Small kids from primary school are seen carrying guns, but now you can’t tell which one is real and which one isn’t,” Jafta said. “It’s giving the community a bad image and the CPF and community are trying to raise awareness, so we’re trying to deal with it.” Last October, three youths were shot by unknown persons in Newlands East. It is alleged that Samuel Emmanuel Hughes, Lucken Hlenti and Tresegay Barnes, all from Wentworth, were shot by unknown suspects while visiting Newlands. Hughes allegedly died at the scene, while the two others were rushed to the hospital for medical attention. Daily News