DURBAN - The South African Association for Marine Biological Research (Saambr) has identified the “sea dragons” that were photographed along the beach on the lower South Coast of KwaZulu-Natal. Saambr’s Ann Kunz said Camilla Jacobs and her son were enjoying a holiday on the South Coast last weekend until their swim was interrupted by the arrival of hundreds of small blue bottles. Jacobs said as they could no longer enjoy swimming in the ocean, they decided to walk along the shoreline and came across what she described as “very small blue creatures that look like sea dragons”. “She took a photograph of the “dragons” and sent them to us for identification.  Perhaps you, too, have come across these “sea dragons” and wondered what they were,” Kunz said. “They are sea swallows (Glaucus atlanticus) which are a species of small shell-less gastropods. They belong to the nudibranchia order and are normally found floating upside down in the open ocean. They feed on blue bottles and violet snails and are sometimes washed ashore alongside bluebottles by strong onshore winds,” she said. Kunz said that unlike humans, sea swallows were not only immune to the toxic sting of blue bottles, but also stored the ingested toxins for their use. “If you come across a “strange-looking creature” when visiting the rocky shores or walking along the shoreline, you are most welcome to send your photo to info@saambr.org.za and we will identify it for you,” urged Kunz. Last year Saambr identified a strange fish that had washed up on the South Coast. They had received a photo from several anglers who were completely baffled by their find.  The association then sent the picture to a few knowledgeable colleagues who likewise could not put a name to it. To solve the mystery, Saambr said they sent the picture to some fish experts at the South African Institute for Aquatic Biodiversity in Makhanda, Eastern Cape.  They were able to identify it as a fanfish Pteraclis velifera (Smith No. 207.4).  Daily News