DURBAN – South Africa still has only one laboratory-confirmed human rabies case since the start of the year. That was according to the National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) in its February communiqué. The case was that of a 4-year-old girl from the Eastern Cape who was playing with a dog near her home in Gqeberha when the dog bit her on the lip on December 1, 2021. A month later she was hospitalised and later died. Post-mortem samples were collected and a skin biopsy and cerebrospinal fluid confirmed rabies. Last year, South Africa had 19 laboratory-confirmed human rabies cases. The cases were reported from the Eastern Cape (nine), KwaZulu-Natal (six) and Limpopo (four) provinces. Additionally, three probable cases were reported in KZN (two) and the Eastern Cape (one). Probable cases fit the clinical case definition of rabies but could not be verified by laboratory testing. The NICD said the resurgence of rabies in KZN and the Eastern Cape was reported last year. “The epizootics have not been brought under control at the time of this report,” the NICD said. “Nearly all human rabies cases in South Africa are associated with exposure to rabid domestic dogs. As such, rabies is most effectively prevented through control in domestic dog populations. This is achieved through parenteral rabies vaccination. The latter is mandated by law as the responsibility of pet owners. Pet owners in rabies-affected communities are urged to ensure that their animals are vaccinated against rabies.” The NICD said dogs and cats could be vaccinated at private veterinary clinics, but provincial veterinary services and several non-profit animal welfare organisations were also administering vaccinations to pets in affected areas. People exposed to a suspected rabid animal should seek urgent medical attention. “The development of rabies infection in humans can be prevented through rabies post-exposure prophylaxis. It is imperative that all wounds, however small, are washed copiously with water and soap. This is followed by the administration of rabies vaccine and immunoglobulin therapy based on the risk associated with the exposure,” the NICD said. Daily News