DURBAN - WHILE the police service is confident that the backlog in the processing of DNA tests will be cleared, a KwaZulu-Natal family say they are still waiting to bury their loved one four months after he died. The family of the late 29-year-old Khululekani Cele, of eThembeni in Groutville, said they did not know when they would be able to bury him because of the DNA backlog. Police Ministry spokesperson Lirandzu Themba said the backlog began after a range of issues arose that included budget constraints, a shortage of quantification kits, or so-called DNA consumables, and the discontinuation of the electronic track and trace system. She said that since the turnaround strategy was put in place to tackle the issue, there had been improved contract management, consumables needed for DNA testing have been secured for all SAPS labs, vacant positions have been filled and shifts adjusted to deal with backlog and news cases. She said the police were confident that the backlog would be cleared, though she did not specify how many cases were still outstanding. Cele’s family said they were anxiously waiting for his body to be released. Cele’s father, Mhlohlwa Cele, said his son was found dead in the Mvoti River in KwaDukuza on November 17 last year after he went missing on October 23. Although the family were able to identify his body through the clothes he was wearing, police informed them that DNA testing was required due to the decomposition that had taken place. The DNA samples were taken on November 18 and the family said they have not received feedback. “As per custom, we have kept lit candles for my son since last year. He is still lying in the government mortuary and we have not been able to bury him because the police refuse to release his body until DNA (results are released),” said Cele. He added that they are deeply saddened by this and hope that he can be released soon so that he can be buried and the process of healing can begin. Elanie van der Walt, spokesperson for civil rights organisation Action Society, said that the DNA backlog hampered the administration of justice. “Action Society feels that the DNA backlog is a massive miscarriage of justice as victims don’t get their day in court because court cases are struck off the roll and families of victims can’t bury their loved ones due to a lack of DNA evidence, something that never should have happened and we place (this situation) at the door of Police Minister Bheki Cele,” she said. The organisation filed a complaint with the public protector in October last year against the police minister, DNA oversight board and President Cyril Ramaphosa, which was acknowledged and was being investigated. THE MERCURY