DURBAN – The KwaZulu-Natal department of cooperative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) has given Ugu District Municipality R19 million in grant funding, as part of efforts to improve the provision of water in the district. Cogta spokesperson Senzelwe Mzila said the money is to be used to repair the Bhobhoyi St Helen’s Rock water scheme, that requires major upgrades at a cost of about R15m. The rest of the grant is to be used for the drilling of 12 boreholes in the uMuziwabantu and uMzumbe local municipalities. Mzila said through the rollout of the grant, the department aims to stabilise the provision of water within the district, which has faced severe water constraints. “The grant follows a rigorous assessment of water infrastructure by technicians from Cogta, in conjunction with their counterparts from the district,” Mzila said. On Saturday, KZN Cogta MEC Sipho Hlomuka along with economic development, tourism and environmental affairs MEC Ravi Pillay, and transport, community safety and liaison MEC Peggy Nkonyeni convened a special meeting of the Ugu water inter-ministerial task team. They received progress reports from district’s delegation, led by mayor Phumlile Mthiyane. The meeting was also attended by officials from the municipal infrastructure-support agency under “Operation Sukuma Sakhe”, Dr Thobile Sifunda, who is HOD for the department of sport and recreation, attending on behalf of social development MEC Champion Nonhlanhla Khoza. “The reports tabled by the municipality before the task team shows that currently the demand exceeds supply across all the water systems within the district. The municipality proposed a mix-use approach that requires more investment in boreholes; spring protection; rainwater-harvesting; and desalination to complement the conventional methods of water supply,” Mzila said. “The task team decided that the Ugu District should embark on an extensive outreach programme to communities to raise awareness about the water challenges and enforce water-saving measures, which include the reporting of water leaks.  “The task team also called for greater transparency between the district and communities on water provision.” Mzila said Hlomuka directed the municipality to convene a special council meeting to consider the election of portfolio committee chairpersons, and for the municipality to fast-track the appointment of its chief financial officer. He said Hlomuka also raised concerns with the delays in the implementation of the upgrades to the Eskom power lines at the Umtamvuna pump station.  The MEC called for the fast-tracking of the project to improve security of supply infrastructure. The project is set to be completed by June 2022. Mzila said the provincial government, through the department of Cogta, continues to provide support measures to the district municipality to improve the functionality of the municipality and its ability to provide service delivery to communities. This includes the provision of technical, governance and financial experts. Ugu District Municipality spokesperson France Zama said an urgent recess committee meeting was convened on Wednesday by mayor Mthiyane to consider a consolidated report on the status of water supply and the environmental impact on all the rivers and lagoons in the district. Zama said the committee, composed of members of the executive committee of the municipality, considered a consolidated technical report on the status of water supply in the district, after which measures were put in place to rapidly respond to areas still experiencing water-supply disruptions through the provision of an alternative water-relief supply. “The leadership of the municipality has unanimously reaffirmed its commitment to residents to deal with issues relating to water-supply disruptions in some parts of the district, despite the prevailing challenges which are insurmountable,” Zama said. Daily News