MAHOMMED Moorad, better known by his stage name Mo Magic,performed his first live public show in South Africa, since the pandemic began, on Saturday. His show took place at The Oyster Box on January 22. Moorad said it had been a challenging two years since the Covid-19 pandemic began. “The most trying issue at the outset was the lack of government support for the arts. With all my corporate, theatre and private events being cancelled or postponed indefinitely once we went into the initial lockdown, and with no acknowledgement of my application for support, I decided to shift my focus to what I could control. “As such, I began researching the online platform and developing material suitable for this new medium. My experience on stage and in front of video cameras shooting for TV over the years helped immensely. The virtual shows evolved to hybrid shows in studios for corporate events and I resumed serving my clients at live events once the lockdown levels were eased, and performing abroad.” He said in recent years most of his clients used his services as an MC and entertainer. “I pivoted to the virtual platform and kept improving the shows, which included the tech, studio and the show material. With this new platform, my approach was to create maximum engagement with the audience and perform the best magic, mentalism (mind reading magic) and comedy for the medium. “The results were positive and my South African client base includes the likes of Mercedes-Benz SA, Discovery, Old Mutual, KFC and more. Naturally, my material in live shows has also been adapted and in some cases been designed to ensure physical distancing and limited or zero physical contact.” Moorad said when South Africa was hit with the second wave in January last year he made the decision to move to Dubai for three months to work there, as Dubai was open for select events. “My first booking was serving as MC and entertainer for the world’s largest food and hospitality event, Gulfood. In April 2021, I returned to South Africa to serve clients and since, have returned to Dubai in October for Gitex (the largest tech expo in the Middle East) and was booked to serve at the largest internet security expo in the Middle East, held in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, in November. I closed off the year with a number of virtual and live events in South Africa.” Prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, Moorad said 2019 was a great year for international travel and work. “The art of magic took me to the UK, Ireland, twice to New York and Los Angeles with performances in both cities, then returning to South Africa for a theatre tour, I shot my Showmax special (”Mo Magic Live“) that is currently available on DSTV/Showmax, and closed off the year MCing and entertaining at a five-star hotel in Bahrain. “In February 2020, I found myself back in Los Angeles, and one of my highlights was performing at the home of actor Gerard Butler, in Hollywood. There was definitely momentum with regards to me spending more time abroad. I returned to SA to serve my clients and within two weeks of returning, the country went into a national lockdown.” Moorad said he was eager to get back to doing live events in South Africa, kicking off at the Oyster Box.  “I am most looking forward to being on stage with an audience who made time to attend my show and who are eager to be part of the experience. “The show will include some of my favourite routines, ideal for new audiences, and feature a number of new pieces that I am excited about, some of which were created for corporate clients during the year and only available for those audiences. “I was overwhelmed to hear that the show sold out in a day and a half. It includes a 3-course meal at the iconic Oyster Box Hotel. We will not be extending the show in January. However, we are looking at adding another date at the Oyster Box in the next few months. I would also love to take this concept to other venues as it's been on my mind for a while.”  He said the move to Dubai last year, during the second wave, had opened new doors and he would be returning to the Middle East for a number of events. “I will continue serving my corporate and private clients in South Africa and I would be delighted to take my live show to more venues across KZN and the country.” Follow Moorad on Instagram and Facebook POST