DURBAN - Disgruntled security guards blockaded the entrance of Coastal Tvet College uMbumbulu’s campus with burning tyres on Tuesday. The guards, employed by Calvin and Family Security, said they had not been paid for shifts they had committed to in December. Supervisor Mandla Ngcongo said the confusion had been due to a lack of cohesive communication between the college and the security company. “As we are protesting, we have been without pay for December. And this issue has been persistent, which has led to us to closing down the institution,” said Ngcongo.  “We do not have a pay day that the company has committed to. At times we are paid on the last day of the month and sometimes three days into a new month. The worst part is, every time we seek to enquire about it, the company says it has not been paid while the college says it has made the payments to the company. “We really feel let down because we guard the institution 24/7. Property worth millions is kept safe every day, yet we are the ones who are suffering the most,” said Ngcongo. Calvin and Family Security owner Calvin Mathibela has rejected the accusations of non-payment, and said the issue was with the management of the college. “My company started work with Coastal College in 2019 and has faced trouble ever since.The management of the college has been difficult in trying to address all issues I have brought before them. “There are months where I cover the expenses for four months when the college does not pay me. In the latest instance the college has not paid since August, which is the past four months. I have covered all that. Again, I have sent countless emails and made calls to the management and I have nothing to show for it. As we speak, they have now promised to pay because the school is up in flames,” said Mathibela. Police were not at the scene of the protest, whilst the school’s management could not be reached by the time of publication. To comment on this story send a WhatsApp message to our BackChat column on 071 485 7995. Daily News