DURBAN - ANC councillor Mzwandile Shandu appeared in the uMlazi Magistrate’s Court on charges of attempted murder, on Thursday morning. Shandu together with his co-accused nephew, Mlondisi Shandu, are alleged to have attacked a family of an ANC member who was challenging for the position of councillor in Mid-Illovo’s ward 7.  According to police spokesperson Thembeka Mbele, the men were arrested in different locations with the help of eThekwini’s police intelligence.  “The men were arrested in three different locations, and together face seven counts of attempted murder, three counts of murder and three counts of malicious damage to property. One suspect is still on the run,” said Mbele. The initial formal bail application for the accused was postponed on December 30, when Shandu tested positive for Covid-19. His defence attorney, Abdul Karrim, had asked the court to give his client time to recover from the disease. “My client has every intention to appear in front of this court, but, when he was being prepared for the court date. He tested positive for Covid-19,” said Karrim. During Thursday’s proceedings, the State petitioned the court to grant another postponement as the lead investigative officer was not available due to illness. “The lead investigative officer is off sick or ill, therefore the State requires that the formal bail application be postponed until the officer is back with a medical certificate. Another officer is set to take over the case should the officer not be well when the court returns, but could not make an appearance today as he still needs time to familiarise himself with the case.” Karrim questioned the investigative officer’s absence and asked that the court demand a medical certificate. “The defence is unsure of the officer’s sickness as he opposed bail in the first appearance although we had not even approached the courts for a hearing. We ask the court to demand the officer to produce a medical certificate for the sake of the case,” said Karrim. The State said it had intentions to oppose bail. “The State will oppose bail because it has witnesses who are known to the accused. Therefore, the State fears for the lives of the witnesses should the accused be released.” Magistrate Jaydene Fietzgerald, granted the postponement for the prosecution to January 12 for formal bail application. Both the accused were remanded in custody. To comment on this story send a WhatsApp message to our BackChat column on 071 485 7995. Daily News