DURBAN - Residents expected to be affected by the eThekwini Municipality’s planned water supply shutdown in areas north of Durban for the rest of the week greeted the news with anger. The municipality said the shutdown was due to a low system input volume from the Northern Aqueduct into Phoenix and the Trenance Park and Ntuzuma reservoirs.  It said in the city’s quest to ensure equal access of water to residents through this process, the supply of water in these reservoirs would be rationed for some parts of the night. “The water rationing is expected to continue for another week from 8pm to 4am daily,” the municipality said. It said the city was working tirelessly to ensure that water was supplied normally at all times. The following reservoirs and areas will experience water shortages during this process: – Phoenix 2 Reservoir: Sunford, Hartford, Longcroft, Longbury, Southbury, Eastbury, Grove End, Shastri Park, Caneside and Woodview – Phoenix 4 Reservoir: Westham, Amaoti, Brooks Farm, Brookdale – Trenance Park 3 Reservoir: Amaoti, Trenance Park, Redcliffe, Buffelsdraai, Groenberg and Valley View – Trenance Park 1 Reservoir: Trenance Park Old Phase, Dawn Crest, Riet River and Parkgate – Ntuzuma reservoirs: all Ntuzuma areas. “Water tankers are being deployed to affected areas to provide water to communities,” the municipality said. It also apologised for the inconvenience caused and appealed to residents to use water sparingly. For more information regarding water supply, members of the public can contact the call centre on 080 131 3013, the toll-free number on 080 311 1111 or use the eThekwini Water and Sanitation WhatsApp number on 073 1483 477. Irate residents made their views known. Marlene Pillay said: “Absolutely outrageous, and our electricity went off at 1am –still nothing! How do we still continue paying for services not rendered?” Nathasha Sarup said: “Extremely frustrating, you guys can't seem to get anything right. Parkgate has been without power and now water. Technicians don't seem well equipped or knowledgeable enough to resolve the issue permanently but you guys close the logged fault. At the end of it all we are still expected to pay, you guys make consumer protection a joke.” Nkosinathi Pierce Mkhayiphi said: “This is a joke, reservoirs are low, say you are joking! Almost every day it's raining but we have reservoirs running low!” Slierh Zamorh Mbatha said: “Y’all are really playing games now with us, we had no electricity since Saturday, it only came back midnight today so now it's water yuuh ay ninescefe shame!” Sen Naidoo said: “eThekwini Municipality, what exactly is causing the 'low system input’? This was supposed to be remedied mid-December and we still do not have clear information.” Daily News