DURBAN - TWO people have died tragically while at least four others were injured in KwaZulu-Natal road accidents this weekend. ALS Paramedics said a man died in a single truck accident on the N2 north bound after the M1 Higginson Highway just after 7am this morning. Paramedic Garrith Jamieson said paramedics arrived on the scene to find that a single truck had left the roadway and coming to rest on its side. “The driver, a male believed to be in his thirties, was found lying outside the vehicle and had unfortunately sustained fatal injuries and there was nothing more paramedics could do for him and he was declared deceased on the scene,” he said.   In another incident, Emer-G-Med Paramedics spokesperson Kyle van Reenen, said a heavy motor vehicle caught on fire on Chamberlain Road, south of Durban, late this afternoon. “No injuries have been reported. Fire and Rescue services are in attendance,” he said.   Meanwhile on Saturday, Van Reenen said paramedics attended to a collision involving a light motor vehicle and a minibus taxi at the intersection of Kenneth Kaunda Road and Berkeley Crescent in Durban North. “Reports from the scene were that multiple commuters have sustained minor injuries but have refused further hospital treatment,” he said.   On Friday, IPSS Medical Rescue spokesperson Paul Herbst said just before 12 noon four people were injured in an accident on the R102 at the entrance to Ballito. Herbst said IPSS Medical Rescue, together with IPSS Search and Rescue division as well as Lenmed paramedics. responded to the scene. Upon arrival of advanced life support paramedics, reports indicated that two vehicles had collided resulting in multiple patients, he said.   “The drivers of both vehicles were trapped in their vehicles and had to be extricated by rescue personnel. Advanced life support paramedics worked to stabilise the seriously injured patients. “Two additional patients, including a child, were injured. All patients were treated on scene and transported to hospital for further care,” said Herbst.   Hours prior to this accident at 1am, ASL Paramedics said one person was killed in an accident on the M1 Higginson Highway near the Mobeni Heights Cemetery in Chatsworth. Jamieson said when paramedics arrived on the scene, they found that a single vehicle had lost control and overturned multiple times before leaving the roadway and coming to rest down the embankment against a tree. “One person, a male believed to be in his forties, was found inside the vehicle unresponsive. Paramedics assessed the man, however he had sustained fatal injuries and there was nothing more paramedics could do for him and he was declared deceased on the scene,” he said.   THE MERCURY