DURBAN - Private investigator Brad Nathanson has come out guns blazing against gender-based violence and crimes against women following the rape and robbery of a 67-year-old woman in the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast earlier this month. Nathanson said that on January 13, 2022, at around 1pm, the woman was at the back door of her home in Seapark, Port Shepstone, when she was pushed back inside her kitchen by a single suspect who was armed with a handgun.  The suspect pointed the gun at the victim and pulled the trigger more than once but they were “dry fires”. “The suspect tied up the victim and her mother. He was aggressive from the start and he bullied the two women into submission.  “He ransacked the house and would return to torment the victim during his two hour search through the house for valuables. He screamed only profanities at the victims.  “Before he left the suspect decided, likely because there is no fitting consequence in this country for crimes like these, to  rape the 67-year-old victim,” Nathanson said. “If you want to stop men raping women, bring back the death penalty. And if this offends you, then perhaps by the time you have read this story you will agree that the zombie behind this crime deserves nothing less.” Nathanson said rape had nothing to do with sex but everything to do with power. He said the zombie who raped this victim is just a little man making himself significant by doing despicable things to women. “What do you think he deserves? “Having been on the scene I can safely say that I was able to identify where the suspect had sat waiting for the right opportunity to pounce on the victim.  “This place among the bushes, is on the victim’s property. So cut back your bushes and encourage your neighbours to do the same,” Nathanson said. He said the suspect fled with three cellphones and a laptop. “He also got away with the dignity of a woman when he wrenched it from her during this vile act of dominance.” Nathanson said the victim was receiving counselling and has started on a course of antiretroviral drugs as a precautionary measure. Description of the suspect: Nathanson said a case was opened with the local SAPS. “I don’t care who finds him but let’s just find him,” he said. “This office has reason to believe that this suspect may be behind at least one other incident in the area. Fortunately, this was only a theft, caught on CCTV camera.  “Please know that in the CCTV footage I have, I watch the suspect stealing with his left hand while in his right hand he has a long barrelled revolver. Please consider this when responding to things that go bump in the night.” Nathanson said they were investigating. Police had not commented by the time of publication. When Police Minister Bheki Cele released the quarter two crime statistics 2021/2022, he said 9 556 people were raped between July and September 2021. It was an increase of 634 cases, amounting to a 7.1% increase compared to the previous reporting period, he said. A sample of 6 144 rape cases, Cele said, revealed that 3 951 of the rape incidents took place at the home of the victim or the home of the rapist, while liquor and drugs were involved in 1 383 of the rape cases. Cele said 400 rape cases were domestic violence-related. Daily News