DURBAN - A man and a woman were killed on the same road, at almost the same spot and at the same time a day apart on a KwaZulu-Natal Midlands road. On Monday, Underberg Emergency Medical Services (UEMS) returned to the R617 where they had been the previous day following a crash on Kingscote towards Kokstad after being called out at 11.44am. UEMS manager Kate Bodmann said when paramedics arrived, they found that three minibus taxis had been involved in a crash. “On assessment, UEMS paramedics found that one person, a woman believed to be in her 30s, sustained life-threatening injuries after being ejected from one of the taxis,” Bodmann said. “Unfortunately, there was nothing paramedics could do for the patient, and she was declared deceased. Three other patients sustained minor injuries but refused hospital transport.” Bodmann said, fortunately, the other two minibus taxis were empty except for the drivers who escaped injury. “Reports from the scene indicate that the two taxis that were empty were towing one another when they lost control on a bend. The towed taxi detached and raced down the road. An oncoming taxi with passengers tried to avoid the runaway vehicle when it lost control and rolled multiple times,” Bodmann said. She said all necessary services were on the scene and would be investigating the crash further. On Sunday, UEMS had responded to the same road when a man was killed after he was ejected through the windscreen of a vehicle and run over by an oncoming vehicle. UEMS were called out at 11.44am to the scene. Paramedics had found that the driver of a single vehicle had lost control, and the vehicle rolled multiple times. A man believed to be in his 30s was ejected from the vehicle through the windscreen into the middle of the road. “Unfortunately, another vehicle came around the bend and struck the patient. The patient sustained life-threatening injuries, and unfortunately, nothing could be done for him. He was declared deceased by paramedics,” Bodmann said. She said five patients, including a two-year-old girl, sustained moderate injuries. The patients were treated on scene by paramedics and transported to the hospital in a stable condition. Daily News