LIFESTYLE- Annually, the beginning of the year marks “diet season” where a lot of people fall for quick-fix diets to lose weight. Nathalie Mat, a registered Dietitian and spokesperson for the Association for Dietetics in South Africa (ADSA), addressed some questions around this: Q:What are some of the common quick-fix diets that are popular now? A: The biggest trend I'm seeing people try out is intermittent fasting. This takes several different types where some people severely restrict what they are eating for one to two days a week. In other cases, some will skip breakfast and eat all their food for the day in a smaller “eating window” or portion of the day. By and large, this is not working very well in my practice and many people are actually gaining weight with fasting. I've also seen a few weight loss tips on social media showing that lemon juice and coffee first thing in the morning is meant to help with weight loss but this is not backed by good science. There are always pills, injections and teas that promise fast weight loss. Generally, unless these are being supervised by a health professional, they are likely to be expensive placebos.  Q: What are the general dangers of these kinds of crash diets to our health? Our bodies do not like to lose weight, even if we think our weight is higher than it should be. Fast weight loss is stressful for the body and the faster the weight loss, the more your body is going to fight it by making you hungry and slowing your metabolism. Any teas or potions that cause diarrhoea are not likely to lead to true weight loss, they are more likely to be causing dehydration. In extreme cases this can lead to electrolyte imbalances which can be dangerous for your heart and organs. Anything that results in vomiting can lead to dangerous electrolyte disturbances that can damage the heart. Very restrictive diets will not meet your nutrient requirements which will have you feeling drained and tired quite quickly. The most worrying side effect for me is damage to our relationship with food. What many people do not realise is that the biggest predictor of future weight gain is: going on a diet. Yes, you read right. Trying to lose weight disrupts your appetite control. This often leads to restriction and bingeing cycles, leading to higher intake (and weight) in the long term. All eating disorders start with a diet. We might think a diet is innocent enough but there can be very real, long-term psychological impact from dabbling with a fad diet. Q: ‘Miracle fat-burners and metabolism boosters’ are easily available on the shelves and promise super-fast results in this area. Are there any health dangers here? A: The supplement industry is not as heavily regulated as medicines are. Some of these “wonder” products have been purposely contaminated with banned or undesirable substances which can include prescription medications like sibutramine (which was banned due to safety issues) or thyroid medications, steroids and even addictive stimulants like ephedrine. Some might include legal substances like caffeine but in dangerously high doses. These can potentially interact with medications you are prescribed, disturb your normal hormone metabolism or even cause heart damage. Some of these quick fixes do have a placebo effect that will help people feel less hungry. The more expensive and invasive (like injections or IV drips) the product, the more likely we are to think these products will work, even if it is a placebo. You may end up poorer but not really thinner.  Q: How do we ensure products are safe to use? A: A health professional like a doctor or dietitian will be able to screen you for contraindications and will be able to advise if there are more appropriate alternatives. The longer I study nutrition, the more I realise it is incredibly nuanced and has to be personalised to suit an individual’s lifestyle, preferences, budget, religious beliefs and mental health status. There is no one-size-fits-all approach to long term health at a population level. Consulting with a registered professional protects you from people who are only interested in selling products. The diet industry is out to make a profit, not to protect your long-term health.  Q: What are the dangers of using fat burners and metabolism boosters without professional consultation? A: If you have a heart condition, hormone imbalance or mood disturbance to name a few, these diet products may place additional stress on the body that can lead to serious complications, like heart or clotting issues. If you are really struggling to lose weight, it is possible that you have an underlying health condition like poor blood sugar control or thyroid issues. Relying on these products rather than seeking medical attention can delay receiving a proper diagnosis and receiving medication that can help you.  Q: What is the right way to lose weight? A: A dietitian is a nutrition expert. If you want to change how you are eating, I would recommend starting with a dietitian. A dietitian will let you know if they suspect an underlying issue and would like you to go for further testing with your GP. Only a GP can give out prescription medication, so if you are looking to find out if there is a prescription medication that can help you, you can start with a GP. All prescription medication still requires an energy deficit to work and so a dietitian is recommended, even if your GP has given you a script to help you lose weight. Weight loss results in general are the best when you enlist the help of support, and a dietitian is the perfect partner to guide you through a weight loss journey without damaging your relationship with food.  Q: How should eating and losing weight complement each other? There is a common belief that cutting down on food is what will help you lose weight (some people cut our starch or sugar for example), is this safe? A: Weight loss requires a balance of all food groups, eating in a way that is satisfying, that fits within our household resources (including time) and is sustainable in the long-term. If you want to reduce your fat stores, you have to go into a gentle calorie deficit. I regularly see people who are eating way too little in the day then catching up at night when their hunger kicks in. For many people, learning how to control their blood sugar is the key to moderating their total energy intake. Physical activity is often the glue that seems to hold everything in balance and so I highly encourage my clients to start exercising to help them connect to their bodies. This helps them feel when they are hungry, tired or emotional. For most people, diet change is needed to see weight loss. This does not mean eating as little as possible, cutting out food groups or doing radical things. I know we want a quick and sexy message like “cut out sugar” but really, nutrition isn’t that simple.  Q: What is the correct way to approach eating habits and weight loss? A: There is no magic bullet that will help people drop weight overnight. I know that anything promising fast and easy weight loss is appealing. The only way to lose weight is to consistently make lifestyle changes that help to moderate your calorie intake, keep you physically active and support long-term health. I really like the idea that our body will “drift” in the direction of our habits. Rather than chasing something radical, aim to do the things daily that support long-term health and weight maintenance. This can mean moving your body in a way that makes you feel good for at least 150 minutes a week; drinking mostly water; getting vegetables at most meals and choosing heart healthy protein and starchy foods. Getting enough sleep and managing stress are also pivotal in managing weight. Fun foods like cakes, takeaways and festive family feasts do have a place in our diets but they shouldn't be the mainstay of our eating. I would encourage people to let go of the idea of being on diet, being “good” or clean eating. Instead I recommend having a relaxed relationship with food where we choose the foods that make our bodies feel good and maintain habits that help us feel healthier, happier and more comfortable in our skin. If you have no idea what that looks like, I’d suggest seeing a dietitian. * For more healthy eating advice visit ADSA’s Nutrition Confidence Blog here. POST