DURBAN - Police are investigating a fight which broke out after an alleged road rage incident in which a  Westville man was stabbed and a woman dislocated her shoulder. The incident took place on December 27 in Dawncliffe, Westville just after 7pm.  Mobi-Claw911 emergency rescue service released a report on the incident on Monday.  According to Mobi-Claw911 the quiet neighbourhood of Dawncliffe in Durban became the Wild West, after their control room received multiple activations reporting a fight on the road. Incident managers dispatched the SAPS, private security and volunteers to the scene.  Mobi-Claw911 spokesperson Mike Myers said first on scene were the volunteers, who reported that a large-scale fight had broken out between a family of residents and members of a tow truck company who had called in their reserves. Myers reported that the fight involving a group of about 20 people, was out of control with firearms and knives being brandished around. Myers said the SAPS were unable to arrive immediately as they were attending to another crime in progress.  “At this stage, a resident had been stabbed in the arm and one woman who was with the tow truck drivers had her shoulder dislocated. Volunteers managed to calm the situation and the tow truck drivers left the scene. “SAPS attended a short while later and the parties were advised to go to the police station to open a case, statements could not be taken on scene as parties were not in a sober state of mind,” Myers said.  It was established that the fight started as a road rage incident just outside the Westville area.  Myers said a fight broke out at this original scene where the woman’s arm was dislocated.  “The tow trucker then followed the residents to their home and called for backup, this is when the incident escalated. Alcohol and road rage almost became a deadly combination.” The woman was transported by ambulance to hospital and the man treated on the scene for a stab wound to his arm. “Other residents came out to see what was going on and were warned to return to the safety of their homes as firearms were being brandished around. Thank you to all those that attended, without your assistance, this incident could have had far more devastating consequences.” Westville SAPS is investigating the incident.  Daily News