DURBAN – Netcare 911 held a prayer meeting on Friday followed by a minute of silence in honour of their heroes who were no longer with them. Last year, a Netcare 911 helicopter crashed near Bergville, KwaZulu-Natal, and claimed the lives of all on board. The helicopter, Netcare 1 air ambulance, was carrying a pilot and four healthcare personnel when it crashed. The prayer meeting and minute of silence was for those victims. On its Facebook page, Netcare 911 said the “Durban team held a prayer meeting followed by a minute's silence in honour of our heroes who are no longer with us.” The victims were anaesthetist Dr Kgopotso Rudolph Mononyane, cardiothoracic surgeon Dr Curnick Siyabonga (Sia), specialist theatre nurse for cardiothoracic and transplant Mpho Xaba, all from Netcare Milpark Hospital, Netcare 911 advanced life support paramedic Sinjin Joshua Farrance and pilot Mark Stoxreiter who worked for National Airways Corporation. They were on their way to Hillcrest to transfer a critically ill patient to Netcare Milpark Hospital in Johannesburg for specialised care. On January 22, 2021, Netcare issued a tribute to their fallen heroes. The following week, a convoy left Johannesburg and transported the families of the deceased, as well as colleagues from Netcare and National Airways Corporation (NAC) to the crash site. A private ceremony was held and attended by close family members and colleagues from Netcare, Netcare 911, Netcare Milpark Hospital and NAC. According to the preliminary accident report by the South African Civil Aviation Authority, at approximately 1.5 hours into the flight and cruising at 725 feet above ground level, the helicopter started to spin uncontrollably before breaking up and losing height rapidly, and finally crashing. A post-impact fire erupted thereafter, which destroyed the helicopter. “The three dual hydraulic servos that were removed from the gearbox were attached to a hydraulic rig to test their operation and functionality. The first two servos were tested, and the systems and the piston extended and retracted to their full length of 6 inches. The middle servo could only be tested on one system because the other system had damage on the return line; the tested system also extended and retracted the piston to its full length,” read the report. It further said the orange main rotor blade, four pitch link control and four clevis and their universal bearings were sent for testing and the results would be incorporated in the final report. The helicopter broke up in-flight and the wreckage was scattered in a 500m radius. It was also by the post-impact fire. Daily News