LIFESTYLE - Dashina Kalicharan, psychic and spiritual holistic healer provides her predictions for 2022.  Aries (March 21 – April 19) General:  You’re growing into the best version of yourself after all the hard lessons. You didn’t go through all of that for nothing. In 2022, the universe is going to take you to another level in almost all aspects of your life. Career and Finance: Time for expansion and optimism. You will meet high-status people and will make superb new contacts that could help advance your career or business. Hard work, consistency, and commitment will take you places. Your efforts for financial stability will bear fruit. Love: Singles, 2022 is about healing your wounds and figuring out what you want in a romantic relationship. You are likely to attract a partner who is sophisticated and in a place of power. Couples, don’t let insecurities get the better of your relationship. Just enjoy each other. Health: Don’t use your energy to stress or worry. Use your energy to believe, create, trust, grow, glow, manifest and heal. The soul always knows what to do to heal itself. The challenge is to silence the mind.  Taurus (April 20 – May 20) General: Your comeback is going to be epic in 2022. Believe in your prayers and watch how things will fall into place. You’re a fighter. Look at everything you have overcome. Trust the process. Don’t give up now. Career and Finance: 2022 will be filled with opportunity and change. Everything that you want and dream about is on the other side of this hard, but beautiful transformation that you are going through. Think big, think bold in the manifestations in your career and finances. The floodgates to financial freedom and success are waiting to be opened. Love: Your romantic life has been undergoing a period of cleansing and purification. Couples, bring back the spark in your love life. Singles, don’t give up on love. The universe is sending a partner with pure intentions. Health: What drains your spirit, drains your body. You have poured your energy into everything and everyone. It’s time to replenish, recharge, restore and nurture your soul. It’s time to turn the attention towards you. Love yourself more.  Gemini (May 21 – June 20) General: God is telling you not to worry, because your drought will be over. Blessings and healing are on its way. Your prayer is manifested and will be answered. You are about to transition from broken to extremely blessed in 2022. Career and Finance: 2022 will be one of the best years for your career in over a decade, with a cornucopia of professional opportunities you used to only dream about. You will be the magnet for prosperity, abundance, wealth, and opulence. Love: With the right person, love is therapeutic. So singles, do not settle. The universe will send you the right person. Couples, prioritise your time for each other and keep things interesting by taking part in fun activities together. Health: Taking care of yourself refills your reserves. Rest and rejuvenate to ensure that difficult periods are not as difficult.  Cancer (June 21 – July 22) General: Divine energy is shifting things for you. Sudden miracles and unexpected blessings are coming your way. God is giving you a new start and restored happiness in 2022. Career and Finance: 2022 will be your magical year in terms of manifesting holistic abundance and success. The energies are aligned for you to take a big risk and receive even bigger rewards. Take the leap of greatness in your career, because you are in your power and primed for success. Love: Never stop dating and don’t stop flirting with your partner. Make your marriage come alive again. Singles, God’s plan will always be more beautiful than your disappointments. Be patient and thank God. Health: Get moving in 2022. The secret to living well and longer is eating half, walking double, laughing triple and loving without measure. Healing yourself is the greatest comeback.  Leo (July 23 – August 22) General: God is fighting for you and 2022 will be the season of breakthroughs. You are growing into the best version of yourself after all the hard lessons. God’s angels are around you to bless and protect you. Career and Finance: 2022 is the year for turning your dreams into reality. Embrace and enjoy each step of the process as you put forth the work to create the life you once dreamed of. Don’t forget to ask the universe for support whenever you face a challenge. Your time is now. Prepare to shine your light. Love: Appreciate your spouse and invest in your marriage. Never let your spouse face a struggle without your encouragement and support. Singles, your ancestors and angels are working for you and will bless you with your soulmate. Health: It’s okay to feel unmotivated at times and experience low days. It’s also okay to pause and take a break to replenish your energy. Listen to your body. It’s always communicating with you.  Virgo (August 23 – September 22) General: 2022 is about embracing who you are and your divine purpose. Identify the barriers in your life, and develop discipline, courage, and the strength to permanently move beyond them, and keep moving forward. Career and Finance: A time for abundance and blessings. You are stepping into a time of infinite possibilities in your career and finances. Be in your higher purpose, which helps you to manifest the financial stability you have been praying for. Give yourself permission to step out of familiar territories and discover your own magic. Love: Couples, choose your battles wisely. Learn to compromise. It will nurture your relationship. Singles, if the universe is making you wait, then be prepared to receive more than you asked for. Health: Give yourself credit for being tired, overwhelmed, and emotionally exhausted but still showing up every day. In 2022, put yourself first and know your worth.  Libra (September 23 – October 22) General: Everything in your life will now begin to propel forward. You will notice a shift from stagnation to flow, from lack to abundance, from confusion to clarity, from pain to peace. 2022 is your turning point. Career and Finance: “I call all of my power back to me now. I trust myself to create the abundance I deserve.” Let this affirmation be for 2022 to give you the strength you need to break past limiting beliefs and achieve your dreams. Your inner alignment will bring all the right opportunities for both your career and finance. Love: Pray together. Hold each other’s hand and just keep going, and always make time for love. A happy marriage is the union of two good forgivers. Singles, your soulmate is out there manifesting you. Just believe and have faith. Health: Breathe. Let go and remind yourself that this very moment is the only one you know and you have for sure. Taking care of yourself is productivity too. Love yourself and be a work in progress.  Scorpio (October 23 – November 21) General: All the worries that have been draining you the past years are about to dry up and lose power over your life. God is moving things on your behalf. Career and Finance: You know great things are going to happen when everything seems to be going wrong. The universe is transforming your situation where blessings and prosperity are on their way. Everything is aligning perfectly and you are on the road to success. Your angels and ancestors are reminding you to stay positive. Love: Couples, choose to love each other, even in those moments when you struggle to like each other. Love is a commitment, not just a feeling. Singles, have faith in your prayers. You will know when it’s true love when someone matches your energy and it’s peaceful. Health: Uncomfortable emotions don’t go away until you recognise them. Pain ignored is pain that multiplies. You can’t distract your way to healing. In 2022, embrace the discomfort and focus on healing.  Sagittarius (November 22 – December 21) General: The universe asks you to be patient. It’s not because it’s punishing you, but it’s protecting you from certain energies and preparing you for the next stage in 2022. Trust the timing and have faith. Career and Finance: It's time to get into alignment with yourself and purpose, in order to find a breakthrough in your finances and career. Create a vision board and actively start working towards the life you want. 2022 promises to be a year of many firsts, provided you find the courage you need to take a step in the right direction. Love:  Marriage is about teamwork. Couples, prioritise growth and be the source of inspiration to each other. Singles, manifest the energy of the person you want. You will attract the energy that you project. Health: Your home is an extension of your energy field. Practice spiritually cleansing your home. Cleaning, decluttering, rearranging your furniture, and adding fresh flowers. This will have an impact on your mind, body, and spirit.  Capricorn (December 22 – January 19) General: The angels are making a way for you. Your prayers have been heard. Trust and have faith that the universe is working on your behalf and moving the pieces around to make your dreams come true in 2022. Career and Finance: If you want to be financially free, you need to become a different person than you are today. It’s time to make monumental changes as you align yourself with opportunities in your career that will awaken your inner fire, and help you realise your true power and potential. Confront the blocks that have been limiting you. Love: When you make the sacrifice in your marriage, you are sacrificing not to each other but to the unity in your relationship. Singles, you need to overcome certain love insecurities. Love can come through social media or dating sites. Health: Keep good company, read good books, love good things, and cultivate your soul and body as faithfully as you can. Take time to reflect. Appreciate your achievements. Be grateful for the lessons.  Aquarius (January 20 – February 18) General: Your next tears will be the tears of joy in 2022. Your angels want you to know that your luck is about to change for the better. You have been working on yourself and growing spiritually. You will be rewarded. Career and Finance: You are approaching your dreams very fast, but the universe is asking you to realise the burdens surrounding your finances and have faith that all is going to work out. Believe you are worthy of receiving success, abundance, and prosperity into your life. The best is yet to come. Love: Singles, the universe wants you to heal and invest in yourself first. Your positive energy will attract someone magnetic. Couples, try to understand things from each other’s perspective and be willing to apologise and recognise your own shortcomings. Health: Don’t sacrifice yourself too much, because if you sacrifice too much there’s nothing else you can give, and nobody will care about you. It’s not selfish to love yourself. Take care of yourself and make your happiness a priority.  Pisces (February 19 – March 20) General: The life you desire is about to become your new reality in 2022. Everything will happen all of a sudden for you. Breathe life into your dreams, get into alignment with what you want, and watch the blessings unfold before you. Career and Finance: You have quite a sparkling year ahead because the effort and hard work you put in the past few years will begin to show results. You can also benefit by having several sources of income. You will do incredibly well in your career, and your income will reflect your rising status. Love: Couples, avoid any misunderstandings by communication. This will help strengthen the relationship. Singles, your wait will be worth it. Be ready for what God has ordained for you. Health: Love yourself enough to set boundaries. Your time and energy are precious. You teach people how to treat you by deciding what you will and won’t accept. Self-care is how you take your power back. *Contact Dashina on dash@psychicdashina.co.za POST