Durban: The family of a Newlands West man are struggling to understand what led to his death at a state hospital. Last Wednesday, Brandon Marimuthu, 31, and his mother, Vasie, were returning to their home on Barondale Road when they were attacked by a swarm of bees. The trip to the hospital was something they did every six months because Marimuthu was diagnosed with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder when he was five years old. According to his sister, Elaine Dulamdass: “It was around 2pm, and they were almost home when they saw a security guard running with his arms swinging in the air. My mum asked him what was wrong, and he shouted back ‘bees’. “By then, the bees were also close, and my mum and brother came under attack. They tried to run into a nearby complex, screaming for help. The neighbours tried to chase the bees away, but everyone in the vicinity came under attack. In fact, it was a while before the bees stopped.” Marimuthu and his mother had been stung several times on different parts of their bodies. A family friend took them to a family doctor. “The doctor treated my mum and gave her an injection. However, my brother refused the injection because he was afraid of needles. The doctor then referred him to the King Dinuzulu Hospital (formerly King George VIII Hospital), so the wounds could be treated. “By the time he arrived at the hospital, he had developed diarrhoea. They took him back home to freshen up and change. My mum then called me, and I took them back to the hospital. “When we got to the hospital, my mum was treated again. She was given pain medication and ointment for the wounds. However, my brother would not allow the doctors to examine him. He has always been anxious around unknown people. It took three security guards and the doctors just to get him onto the bed. They then asked us to step out of the room and drew the curtain around the bed. “At first, Brandon was screaming and he called for my husband. Then he went silent. I became worried and peeked behind the curtain. He was in a semi-conscious state, but he was still trying to lift himself off the bed. When I asked the doctors what happened, they said they had to sedate him because he would not let them draw blood for tests. “I asked them why they needed to draw blood when we had come in for the wounds to be treated and medication but they said they needed to keep him overnight due to him being sedated. “I called the hospital throughout the following morning and was informed that he was okay. At around 2pm, we were told he would be discharged, and my husband went to fetch him after work. “My husband met with the doctor at about 5pm. He then video-called me. The doctor wanted to find out what medication my brother was on. He also told me that a family member needed to meet with a social worker the next day.” While on the call, Dulamdass asked her husband to go and check on her brother. “My mum and I wanted to see him and check how he was doing. However, when my husband called out his name, he did not respond. He called Brandon’s name several times, and there was still no response. I thought he was sleeping and told my husband to let him rest. My husband suddenly ended the video call. When he called back a short while later, he said Brandon was dead. “I told him that can’t be true because the doctor had told us my brother was fine and would be discharged. I told my husband to check again. He replied that Brandon was gone and a fly had come out of his mouth.” According to Dulamdass, the nurses on duty had not realised her brother had died. She also claimed that her brother’s heart rate was being monitored by a machine, but nobody had checked it. “My husband demanded to know from the doctor what time Brandon had died, but the doctor could not provide an exact time. He said it could have been two hours earlier. However, the mortuary staff said he could have died 10 hours earlier. “We want answers. “How does a person seeking treatment for bee stings, not even an allergic reaction or someone in immense pain, just die? “We believe negligence at the hospital was the cause of his death.” She said: “Despite Brandon’s condition, which posed many mental and physical challenges for him, he was the light of our family. “He was very special to my mum, who dedicated her life to taking care and nurturing him.” Dulamdass said the family lodged a complaint with the hospital on Friday and were awaiting feedback. “On the day of his passing, the police came to the hospital and took statements. We were provided with a case number.” Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala, a provincial police spokesperson, confirmed an inquest docket was opened, and the circumstances surrounding the death were being investigated. Roger Byrne, the founder of The Bee Rescuer, identified the bees involved in the attack as African Honey bees. He said they were called to remove the beehive, which was found within a concrete pillar of a boundary wall of a home situated on Barondale Road. “By the time I arrived, the bees had largely settled down. I worked quickly to capture them and neutralise any further threat.” Byrne said bees were not aggressive creatures but were highly defensive. “They will defend their home if a threat is perceived. Bees often make their home in all sorts of weird and wonderful places, such as inside hollow trees, under baths, old tyres, holes in walls and roof cavities, which are another favourite site. Once in, they require a physical removal, which is a specialist job that is best left to a professional.” He said anyone who encountered angry bees should flee and shelter indoors, even inside a motor vehicle. Marimuthu’s funeral was held at the Newlife Christian Centre and thereafter at the Clare Estate Crematorium on Tuesday. Ntokozo Maphisa, a spokesperson for the KZN Department of Health, said: “Without prejudice, the department wishes to extend its condolences to the bereaved family. “The department is concerned by these allegations and views them in an extremely serious light. “We can confirm that an enquiry into this matter has commenced and is being managed at a high level. The findings of this process will determine the way forward. In the meantime, hospital management will be offering psycho-social support to the family.” The Post