DURBAN – North beaches have been reopened for bathing and all sporting activities after tests reveal that water was free of any pollution that may pose a threat to life. On Wednesday evening the city decided to temporarily close North, Bay, Battery, Country Club 1 and 2, eThekwini and Laguna beaches after Umgeni River discharged very abnormal murky water to the beach. Earlier on Thursday Democratic Alliance caucus leader in eThekwini, Nicole Graham said according to the deputy city manager, tests on the central beaches (north and neighbours) have revealed no chemical or sewage contamination. The beaches will be re-opened on Thursday. As per the Deputy City Manager, the tests on the central beaches (North and neighbours) have revealed no chemical or sewage contamination. The beaches will be re-opened today (they’re probably already open). That was not before residents gave the eThekwini Municipality a piece of their minds after the municipality announced the closure of north beaches. Over the last few months, the municipality has closed several beaches due to pollution and sewage spills. The announcement, which was also posted on eThekwini Municipality social media pages, had received more than 550 Facebook reactions, more than 360 comments and was shared more than 540 times. Here are some of the comments from the post: Njabulo Wela: “Is there anything the ANC touches that doesn't turn toxic?” Suren Chublall: “Why am I not surprised. For all I know the water was already compromised during the festive period and the municipality still kept the beaches open to keep the revenue coming in.” Dayle Mack: “What contamination? Has to be sewerage again?” Sizwe Ndebele: “Now is a great time to audit our sewerage systems. One of the city’s main assets cannot be closed every odd day like this.” Riyadh Khan: “Carry on at this rate we will have no beaches left thanks to your incompetence” Dawn Rouse: “And yet North Beach is flying a Blue Flag” Alison Longford Hollow: “The 2 separate sewage works upstream apparently overflows into the Umgeni River when the electricity is off and they cannot pump. So it's e-coli in the river which is getting washed out to the surrounding beaches. This affects both swimmers and paddlers. Maybe they should consider a generator like all other businesses.” Jillian Seaborne: “My son has had severe gastro for the last week after surfing at Bay of Plenty on 28/12. There have already been loads of people getting gastro after swimming at the beach as well.” Mark Benjamin: “Why do people pay rates, taxes and utilities to a USELESS municipality who can't maintain anything except their pockets” Daily News