DURBAN - THUNDERSTORM activity and showers combined with warm summer temperatures are expected in KwaZulu-Natal for the remainder of the week and into next week. South African Weather Service forecaster Wisani Maluleke on Tuesday said they were expecting thunderstorm activity on Wednesday. However, there was only a 30% chance in the eastern half of the province but 60% in the western half. Maluleke said no warning had been issued yet. “On Thursday and Friday, there is a very good chance of showers and thunderstorms, so we’re expecting 60%. There is a chance that we might issue a warning for those days because there is an indication that we might even get severe thunderstorms.” The thunderstorms were mostly expected in the afternoon. He said there was a 30% chance of showers and thunderstorms on Saturday, Sunday and Monday. Temperatures would reflect summer temperatures. Maluleke said on Tuesday the weather service was expecting scattered showers and thundershowers over the province, but these would be isolated in the southeast, including the Durban and Margate areas. A yellow level 2 warning was issued for Tuesday. KZN Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) MEC Sipho Hlomuka placed disaster management teams on alert following the weather warning. The warning came when Cogta was co-ordinating the provincial government’s response to the recent rains that caused damage to several households across the province. Hlomuka said: “Flooding is a common occurrence following heavy rains. Residents in low-lying areas or near river banks must be extra cautious. We’re also encouraging drivers to be extra cautious and avoid crossing overflowing bridges as this could result in their vehicles being washed away.” He also called on parents to ensure that children are kept safe at all times during inclement weather conditions. He said the storm was expected to affect Abaqulusi, Big Five Hlabisa, Impendle, Ingwe, Jozini, KwaDukuza, Mandeni, Maphumulo, Mkhambathini, Msinga, Mthonjaneni, Mtubatuba, Ndwedwe, Nkandla, Nongoma, Nquthu, Richmond, Msunduzi, Ubuhlebezwe, Ulundi, Umhlabuyalingana, uMhlathuze, uMlalazi, uMngeni as well as uMshwathi, uMuziwabantu, Umvoti, Umzimkhulu and uPhongolo. Last week the bodies of two children who were swept away and drowned during severe thunderstorms in the Msunduzi Municipality were recovered. The Umgungundlovu District Municipality said in Msunduzi about 219 households and 1007 people were affected by the incident, which resulted in 220 structures being partially damaged and 12 structures being destroyed. At Impendle, at least seven households and 17 people were affected. The incident resulted in two structures being destroyed and five partially damaged. At uMshwathi, at least 118 households and 710 people were affected. The incident resulted in 156 structures being partially damaged and 12 completely damaged. Daily News