INKATHA Freedom Party founder and president emeritus Dr Mangosuthu Buthelezi has joined the chorus of those decrying the damage caused by the fire in Parliament this week and has called for a thorough investigation so that such a tragedy is not repeated. Buthelezi yesterday recalled his first visit to the national Parliament back in 1994 as a MP and said he had not foreseen a moment when a national key point and the centre of the country’s  democracy could go up in flames.  “I could not believe what we were seeing. My first thought was the indescribable loss of heritage assets that can never be replaced. There was great concern over the Keiskamma Tapestry, invaluable art works and original documents. My fear was that the fire would extend to the Library of Parliament,” said Buthelezi. He added that in the aftermath, it was difficult to reconcile the image of a burnt and hollow shell with the hallowed chamber in which the country’s history has played out for some 40 years. “I remember President Mandela taking the podium for the first time, and the Honourable Frene Ginwala leading proceedings in the House as Speaker of the National Assembly,” the IFP founder said. He added that the country had lost more than mortar and precious stone, more than wood and brass.  “We have lost a symbol of our strength and unity. It is, undoubtedly, a national disaster,” said Buthelezi. He called for a thorough investigation to ensure that such an incident never happened again. The IFP leader expressed gratitude to all those who have been working tirelessly to fight the blaze, to protect the remainder of the parliamentary precinct and to find hot spots that could potentially flare again. “We are tremendously grateful to the exceptional firefighting teams under Chief Fire Officer Ian Schnetler and divisional commanders Mariette Retief, Simon Abrahams and Frank Forbay. The fire stations of Roeland Street, Sea Point, Salt River and Goodwood have led the charge, ably assisted by almost all fire stations in the City of Cape Town who sent relief crews throughout the past two days,” said Buthelezi. THE MERCURY