DURBAN - ANC eThekwini ward 103 councillor Minenhle Mkhize was shot dead outside his home on Saturday evening. He was elected councillor at ward 103 in last year’s local government elections. The ward includes Botha’s Hill, Assagay and KwaSondela.  Mkhize, 39, arrived at home from playing a football match in the area in the early evening, when he was apparently gunned down in his car. KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele confirmed the murder of the councillor. “At around half-past-seven in the evening, a 39-year-old male was murdered near Mthombomuhle Primary School in Cliffdale, Hammarsdale. He was coming from unit 6 where he had played soccer when he arrived at home. He was still in the vehicle, a white Toyota Hilux, with a Gauteng registration number, He was shot several times. He died on the scene.” “The vehicle was taken to the police pound for further investigations, and seven cartridges were found at the scene,” said Mbele. eThekwini Municipality speaker, Thabani Nyawose, who led members of the Executive Committee to Mkhize’s home in Hammarsdale, said the party had lost a dedicated and diligent councillor. “Being a councillor is now becoming a dangerous job as they are constantly under siege. The municipality has lost one of its dedicated, young and hard-working councillors. His passing is a blow to the community of ward 103,” said Nyawose.  On behalf of the people of eThekwini, Nyawose extended his sincere condolences to the Mkhize family, his organisation the African National Congress and the entire community of ward 103. Thulisa Ndlela, of the ANCYL in eThekwini, said Mkhize’s passing was a shock to the youth league given he had only recently started his journey as councillor. “Comrade Minenhle Mkhize was a dedicated servant of the people of Ward 103. He had been elected to serve as the ward councillor in recognition of the work he had done to serve the community as an activist of the Congress Youth League and the ANC. His assassination robs the people of ward 103 and the eThekwini Municipality of a humble servant barely three months into a five-year term of office. “The Youth League understands the frustration and anger of the community at this senseless killing of their leader. However, we plead for calm. We call upon those with any information that could help bring to justice those involved in the assassination of our beloved comrade to share this with law enforcement agencies. There must be no stone left unturned in the investigation until those who pulled the trigger are found together with those who sat to mastermind this crime,” said Ndlela. To comment on this story send a WhatsApp message to our BackChat column on 071 485 7995 Daily News