DURBAN - The uMngeni Local Municipality on Tuesday continued assessing the damage caused by recent storms, while the South African Weather Service expected more thunderstorms and showers to batter parts of the province this week. uMngeni mayor Chris Pappas, deputy mayor Sandile Mnikathi, acting municipal manager Mzi Hloba and general manager for technical services Vusi Mboyana visited Nguga location, Mpophomeni township and Howick West assessing the damage to stormwater drains, roads and overpass bridges. Tuesday’s assessment was preceded by similar valuations of the storms’ destruction in other parts of the municipality and was also informed by submissions by ward councillors. The municipality said: “The recent seemingly unrelenting storms have been the worst for uMngeni Municipality in more than 30 years. The torrential rains have caused tens of millions of rands in damages and the municipal leadership and administration have commenced the processes of quantifying the damage and will thereafter apply for relief funding from relevant departments in both the provincial and national spheres of government.” The municipality said with the readjustment budget period upon them, the municipality would also re-prioritise funds towards storm damage and also towards the maintenance of infrastructure. Also on Tuesday, the uMgungundlovu District Municipality mayor, Mzi Zuma, visited the Richmond and Impendle local municipalities. In Richmond, Zuma met with the council whip, deputy mayor and speaker to discuss the extent to which this local municipality had been affected. Zuma then went to Impendle where he joined mayor Buyisani Mlaba, council whip Makhaye and affected ward councillors in visiting the most devastated households following the severe thunderstorms and fire incidents. “All the households visited had their houses either totally damaged or roofs blown off by strong winds and one was gutted by fire. Mattresses, blankets and plastic roof sheets were handed to these households,” the district municipality said. It also said the Department of Social Development provided food parcels while the issue of totally collapsed and partially damaged houses would be referred to the Department of Human Settlements. Meanwhile, Eskom technicians in KwaZulu-Natal were working to restore electricity supply to affected customers following damage caused by multiple storms last month. The storms left an estimated 1 360 customers without electricity. Some of the heavily affected areas include Obanjeni, Ensingweni, Emoyeni, Samugu, Ntokozweni, Mvutcheni, Maphumulo, Ensungwini, Ekunqobeni, Ngudwini, Sundumbili, Dokodweni, Gingindlovu, Sundumbili and KwaKhoza. Eskom said the incessant rains had led to challenges in accessing certain areas, making many of the areas unreachable. “Currently, the estimated restoration time cannot be confirmed. However, restoration efforts continue,” Eskom said. “Electricity users are urged to treat all electrical lines, sockets, and appliances as live and dangerous.” Daily News