DURBAN – The KwaZulu-Natal Midlands community is mourning the death of a man they have described as a community asset, who was killed in a car crash on Saturday night. He is believed to be one of the Underberg SuperSpar managers and his family is well-known in the Underberg community. Underberg Emergency Medical Services (UEMS) manager Kate Bodmann said at 7.50pm on Saturday, UEMS paramedics were dispatched to a crash scene between Underberg and Himeville. Bodmann said two vehicles, a Golf and bakkie, had been involved in a head-on collision and were found about100m apart. She said when paramedics assessed the scene, they found that four passengers from the vehicles had sustained moderate injuries. The passengers were stabilised on the scene by paramedics and transported in a stable condition to the hospital. “The driver of the Golf was mechanically entrapped in the vehicle and in a critical condition,” Bodmann said. She said paramedics from UEMS and EMRS began stabilising the driver while  the Jaws of Life were used to free the man. “During the extraction, the patient arrested three times but paramedics were able to resuscitate him. Once extracted, he was rushed to a nearby hospital, but unfortunately on route succumbed to the life-threatening injuries he’d sustained,” Bodmann said. “Underberg Emergency Medical Services would like to express their most sincere condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of the gentleman that lost his life in this terrible accident. He was a true asset to our community. He will be sorely missed by many.” Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said Himeville police were investigating a case of culpable homicide. “A 49-year-old man died on the way to hospital while another four occupants were rushed to hospital for medical attention,” Gwala said. Commenting on the post, Gabby Shezi said “RIP my brother you are always in our hearts we lv u no matter where you are now.” Kevin McDonagh said it was very sad. “The Spar team are great and a huge loss. UEMS once again doing their best and here for us all, and often in horrifying situations. Thank you.” Cathy Knox said: “We are indeed grateful to you all for all your assistance last night (Saturday). Again going beyond the call of duty. Thank you from the bottom of our hearts. Love and respect from the Spar family.” Linda Dillon said it was “absolutely tragic”. Kirschel Coney said: “Rest in peace, good man. Tragic news for all involved and thank you a million times over to you guys at UEMS. Condolences to family, friends, colleagues.” Clare Wilkins said she was devastated when she heard the news. Daily News