DURBAN - The bodies of two children who were swept away and drowned during severe thunderstorms in the Msunduzi Municipality on Thursday have been recovered. On Friday, the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) reported that 10-year-old Xolani Shange drowned after being swept away by water while attempting to cross a low-lying bridge in KwaMpumuza, ward 1, of the Msunduzi. Shange was one of two people that were carried away. The second person, who has not yet been named,  survived the incident and is currently receiving medical attention. In another incident, one person is missing after being swept away during a flooding incident in ward 8 of the Maphumulo Municipality. On Sunday, Cogta spokesperson Senzelwe Mzila said the other person, who has not been named, was also a child. The Cogta Facebook page noted that the Provincial Disaster Management Centre, accompanied by representatives from the municipalities of Ilembe and Maphumulo, visited the Khuzwayo family in ward 8, Amambedu, to comfort the family. Cogta said the storm uprooted trees, flooded roads and damaged both public and private property in several municipalities. Meanwhile, the Umgungundlovu District Municipality issued a statement after the mayor visited uMshwathi Municipality on December 30, 2021. The municipality said the severe storm resulted in localised flooding of roads and overflow of low-lying bridges. There was infrastructure damage in various wards within uMgungundlovu District Municipality. Local municipalities that were badly affected were Msunduzi, uMshwathi and iMpendle. The heavy downpours caused flooding throughout the city of Pietermaritzburg. Trees were uprooted and hail damaged motor vehicles and properties. “In Msunduzi, there are approximately 219 households and 1 007 people were affected by the incident which resulted in 220 structures being partially damaged and 12 structures being completely destroyed. At iMpendle, at least seven households and 17 people were affected. The incident resulted in two structures being totally destroyed and five partially damaged,” the municipality said. “At uMshwathi, at least 118 households and 710 people were affected. The incident resulted in 156 structures being partially damaged and 12 completely damaged.” Daily News