DURBAN - The Kloof and Highway SPCA had a very busy December 2021, as they admitted more than 1 000 animals for various reasons. Manager Barbara Patrick said the Christmas decorations were being put away and people were making and trying to keep their 2022 resolutions while the Kloof and Highway SPCA was trying to recover from its busiest and most devastating time of the year. Patrick said the team was exhausted as they had been working around the clock to keep up with the number of animals that came through the SPCA during the festive season. “During the month of December 2021, 1 002 animals were admitted, for a number of reasons, unwanted, stray, going on holiday, unable to afford, abandoned, confiscated, and the list of reasons continues,” Patrick said. “Over the Christmas weekend, we admitted 180 animals, 30 strays, 145 unwanted and five abandoned. Over the New Year weekend, we admitted 62 animals, and only 10 animals have been claimed by their owners to date.” “I have been so disappointed at the treatment of our hard-working staff by irresponsible pet owners. We vaccinate and microchip all strays to protect your pets and to make sure that should they escape again, you can be reunited as soon as possible,” Patrick said. She thanked everyone who had been kind, grateful and compassionate to how hard they had been working and had appreciated their help. The kind words, smiles and donations have been appreciated during the festive season. Patrick asked if people knew what would happen to thousands of animals every year if there was no Kloof and Highway SPCA? “We wish we could save every animal that we admit, but the heartbreaking reality is that there are not enough homes, and there are fates worse than death for irresponsible homing or free to good home pets,” Patrick said. “We really appreciate the wonderful work that animal rescue organisations do, but the reality is spending R1 000 per animal to treat, rehabilitate and re-home an animal cannot be justified when there are thousands of animals that could be sterilised.” Patrick said the Kloof and Highway SPCA would never turn an animal away, so even when their kennels are full, and they are putting more than one animal in a kennel or their cattery cages, they accept more animals. She added that when animal rescue organisations are full of animals needing to be humanely euthanised, owners and their animals are sent to our SPCA, which is never an issue, but we all need our Kloof and Highway SPCA to survive, and everyone is in a position to do something to help. Daily News