LIFESTYLE - The start of a new year provides opportunity to do things differently. We asked some of our local celebrities what their resolutions are and what they are looking forward to in 2022. Maeshni Naicker, comedian and actress on the popular Kandasamy film franchise, among others, said she doesn’t make new year’s resolutions because she never sticks to them, but she makes a list of things she wishes to achieve and ticks things off as she goes at her own pace. The Chatsworth actress said there were also a few lessons learned from 2021 that would  help guide her this year: “With the pandemic and everything that has been going on, what I have learned is to never take people or anything for granted. You have to live your life to the fullest and try to be the best person you can be. “My wish for 2022 would be for us to get back to a normal life. Covid has put a lot of pressure and stress on us. People have lost their jobs and so many of us have lost our loved ones. I have lost so many friends and family who were close to me and it’s been a stressful and emotional year. I wish we can move forward, rebuild, and support one another,” said Naicker. Koobeshen Naidoo, stand up comedian and actor (The Kandasamy’s fame, Imbewu: The Seed), said: “My resolutions for the new year are to try to make up his own mind without my wife’s permission, to make proper use of my gym membership and stop using it as a voucher for free parking, and finally to use my mind power to grow more hair on my head.” On a more serious note, Naidoo said: “If 2021 has taught me anything it’s to be more tolerant and to live life to its fullest. We have to enjoy the simple things in life. Go for walks, play with the pets and spend time with your loved ones.” The Durban-born actor said his wish for the new year is for things to get back to normal. “I would like for things to get back to normal so we can have family functions, even with those cousins we conveniently used the Covid excuse to ignore us. Also for the Dingalings (comedy crew) to get back on stage as normality returns,” said Naidoo. Katishcka Kiara, known for her role on Netflix series Blood & Water  (Season 2) said she has resolved to be more present in 2022. “To really take life and appreciate all that the present moment has to offer without stressing too much over the future, and trusting that all my goals will manifest when the time is right.” The said her biggest lesson taken out of 2021 was balance. “I’ve learned the importance of finding a spiritual balance in life through yoga and meditation practices to optimise all aspects of my physical and emotional health and support and ignite my creative process,” said Kiara. The Durban actress said: “My wish is to have a year filled with joy and blessings that allows me to do a lot more of the work I love and get to explore more of my skills as an artist.” Senzo Mthethwa, radio personality and entertainer, said his New Year’s resolution is to watch less TV and read more books. “Biggest lesson learnt for 2021 is to appreciate the people who have your best interests and cut ties with people, places and things that don’t have a positive impact on your life,” he said. The 38-year old radio personality said his main wish heading into the new year is for people to just do better and be better and stop speaking negatively. Rajesh Gopie, award winning actor, said: “I am not one for new year resolutions, however, this year I plan to accomplish a few things, such as learn Hindi by registering at a school, do the Midmar Mile if it is allowed to take place, and, take my mum on holiday.” The Durban-based actor said that in 2021 he learned that life is short. “It can be taken away in the blink of an eye, so, we should not take relationships for granted. We should actively love our loved ones, that means doing things for them and with them.  “It’s not about buying love with presents etc. It's taking time to have a cup of tea and a proper conversation. A few months ago my mum and I sat down and we chatted about her wedding day. She told me so many wonderful details that I would have never known. Just to see her face light up over those memories was priceless. Talk to the older folks; they would love to talk to you. Of this I have no doubt,” said Gopie. The 49-year old actor said his wish for 2022 is for there to be peace in the world.  “I wish for peace. I hate violence and hatred in our society. I never want to see what happened in July ever again. I was heartbroken to see our country burned and looted. So many jobs and lives lost.  “Also, I wish for the end of the Covid-19 pandemic as we know it. I want to see people’s faces again. To be able to shake hands and hug and kiss freely. I want to see the smiles on children’s faces. I want to be normal again,” said Gopie. POST