DURBAN - Traditional healer, spiritual leader and political analyst “gogo” Aubrey Matshiqi has said that the storm of fires the country has seen, with the burning and attacks on key democratic institutions, were a sign of the coming storm of chaos in South Africa. Matshiqi was speaking to the Daily News on Thursday, after being asked about remarks he made during an interview in April last year, where he foretold that the burning of key institutions signalled a call for the state to pause and reflect. On Sunday morning, the country woke up to shocking reports that the parliamentary complex in Cape Town had been set alight.  On Wednesday police arrested a hammer-wielding man for shattering the Constitutional Court building's windows. “I am talking about two things, literally, we saw the fire during the July unrest in KZN and most recently in Parliament. The colonial powers and the apartheid regime used the same parliament to dismember the African people from their being and from one another. “What is required is a process of remembering the people through rituals and cleansing ceremonies, in cleaning the wounds of our ancestors who were victimised by that parliament. We have spirits of the people who died wandering the streets, these spirits have not rested,” Matshiqi said. He criticised African leaders for abandoning their African rituals and failing to cleanse public institutions after 1994. He said that this did not happen, because South Africa was a country in Africa that appeared to identify itself outside Africa. “I look at the fires at Charlotte Maxeke, the fires in Cape Town, the African studies building burns down, the Rhodes Memorial burns down, there was another fire in KZN. “These are not just fires, these fires are prophecies of a storm of fire that is coming to this country if we do not change. “The same applies to the Covid-19, it is not only a virus, but it is a messenger, an opportunity. Therefore, the fires themselves, if we look at them in terms of prophecy, are an opportunity for us to pause, reflect, meditate about the human condition and how to make it better. In that process we can reach for our higher selves, do better and be better,” he said. Matshiqi appealed to South Africans to reflect on the meaning of the signs of the times, because they were an opportunity for people to do better and live better. Three months after Matshiqi had foretold of the coming fires in the country, chaotic unrest broke out in the Kwazulu-Natal and Gauteng provinces, with malls and warehouses looted and burnt down to ashes in some areas. During the unrest more than 300 people lost their lives. Daily News