DURBAN-  KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Social Development, Nonhlanhla Khoza, has issued a warning to the public to be vigilant and avoid falling victim to scam artists, who claim they can arrange government jobs for a fee.  The department said in a statement that there is a group of people who are calling desperate and unsuspecting job seekers, promising them jobs in the department, in exchange for payments amounting to R 9000. It was further revealed that the scam artists were operating in the Ugu, Harry Gwala and uMgungundlovu Districts. The department said contacting parents of job seekers and enticing them to pay in order to secure jobs for their children is one of the tactics included in their modus operandi. Khoza urged people to be wary of criminals who promise them jobs. “Government jobs are not for sale. We would not ask people seeking employment to pay for any job in the department. In the department, we follow a fair and transparent recruitment process where jobs are advertised in newspapers and other public platforms. People are then urged to apply for jobs and go through the process of interviews,” she said. She added that it was paramount for people to know that no payments are required in order to secure permanent employment in the government. “We are very concerned that these scam artists mislead desperate people to pay money via instant money transfer at stores to a cell phone number, cash-send and eWallet for them to get jobs. We called on all victims of the scam to immediately open criminal cases with SAPS. The department is also looking at ways to deal with this matter,” added Khoza. The MEC said that she would not rest until the perpetrators had been apprehended. “We are going to work closely with the SAPS in order to ensure that we furnish investigators with all the information they need to trace these criminals because they fleecing desperate people and denting the image of the department. We urge all those who have been scammed to give all information to the law enforcement agencies so that the criminals can be arrested,” said Khoza. THE MERCURY