DURBAN - Ugu District Municipality residents are losing hope that water will be restored in affected areas. Some residents made their feelings clear on Facebook in one of the municipality’s updates on the situation in the Ray Nkonyeni Local Municipality. On Wednesday morning, the Ugu District Municipality said the Bhobhoyi water plant was producing 65–72ML/day. The river was still highly turbid. “Water rationing continues and Bhobhoyi Dam is our main source of supply at this stage,” the municipality said. It said the southern system had been stable, apart from Ramsgate. “As a result some critical areas were shut last night to build up the Bhobhoyi plant level, especially in Margate Ext. 3 and Gamalakhe. “Ramsgate South was still left open so that streets like Wedge Road can get relief.” The municipality said Gamalakhe and Margate would be opened at midday on Wednesday as the rationing allowed the plant to supply the northern system. It said Murchison was also shut due to rationing and would be opened later in the afternoon as the reservoir was currently filling. Marburg Reservoir was also filled on Tuesday night and water was opened on Wednesday morning. The municipality said the northern system command reservoir, uMzimkhulu, had filled up to 66% on Wednesday morning. It said Protea Park, Tweni and Sea Park areas were expected to receive water instantly as the reservoir was filling while outlets were open. It added that Southport would also receive water as Wednesday progressed. “The northern system will for the better part of the day fill all reservoirs,” the municipality said. Resident Thembi Shazi said: “Yesterday (Tuesday) you said Nkambeni is restored with water but you were lying, we saw the water truck, don't fool us.” Arthie Bisumbar said there was no water in Marburg on Wednesday morning. Sheila Welmans said: “Believe it when I see it.” Phumelele Madlaba said: “Izingolweni Nkulu area is never the topic here… I think it's been four years without tap water…” Daily News