DURBAN - THE SOUTH African Farmers Development Association (Safda) has condemned the murder of a 70-year-old man in Howick in the KwaZulu-Natal Midlands. Midlands EMS said its Howick Advanced life support paramedics were dispatched to Lions River in Howick yesterday after they received a report. “Upon arrival it was found that one person had sustained fatal injuries and was tied up outside the house. The patient was declared dead by paramedics on the scene.” Midlands EMS added that all local authorities were in attendance. KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said the body of the 70-year-old man was found outside the house with assault wounds on the face and two stab wounds in his back. Mbele added that upon police investigating further, it was discovered that three firearms and a laptop had been stolen. “Charges of murder and robbery were opened for investigation at Howick police station.” Safda executive chairman Dr Siyabonga Madlala said agriculture was the backbone of the economy and farmers provided food for the nation. “We condemn any killing of farmers, we condemn any killing of farm workers. For us as a nation we need to protect our farmers. In fact there is a decline in the number of farmers because the average age of a farmer is an elderly person over the age of 65. So killing those very few people that are actually providing food for the nation is shooting ourselves in the foot.” Madlala added that the decline in the number of farmers in country will lead to an increase in the importing of food products. “Cheap foods, toxic foods across the world (will be imported) when in fact we should produce our own food.” He added that the Cabinet needed to put extensive security measures (in place) to protect farmers. In November 2021, KZN had four farm attacks in the space of two weeks. At the time KZN MEC for Agriculture and Rural Development Bongi Sithole-Moloi said she was very concerned about the continued attacks on farmers. “I would like to reiterate that an attack on a farmer is an attack on the country’s food security. Their role is very important in ensuring sustainable food production for the nation and the continent at large.” The MEC added that the law-enforcement agencies should do whatever it takes to apprehend the perpetrators, so that the law could take its course. THE MERCURY