DURBAN - Brighton Beach SAPS Captain Louise le Roux has urged parents to support schools in the fight against school bullying. Le Roux said school bullying remained a prevalent social ill within many educational institutions in South Africa. “As part of SAPS, the Brighton Beach back-to-school safety initiative  media campaign was launched to empower parents on understanding and how to deal with school bullying,” Le Roux said. She urged parents to continuously speak to their children about bullying. “Remind them that being mean to others is unacceptable. Assure them that you will act if they make a report to you.” Le Roux said if parents suspected that their child or children were being bullied but were reluctant to open up, they should find opportunities to bring up the issue by asking questions such as, “Are there mean children in your school/class?” “What do they do that is mean?” “Have they been mean to you?” “School bullying occurs within the educational environment in places such as the classrooms, hallways, bathrooms, stairwells, locker rooms, playgrounds, tuck shops, sports grounds, swimming pools and places where children assemble. “Within these spaces children also commit cyberbullying.” Le Roux said when bullying occurs outside the school premises, or after hours on social media platforms such as WhatsApp, Snapchat, Facebook, TikTok, Twitter and Instagram, it is categorised as bullying and not school bullying, unless it can be proved that the transgression is because of an incident that had been initiated within the educational environment. “Bullying actions include pushing, shoving, tripping, kicking, spitting, name-calling and insults, swearing at a person/s, spreading malicious rumours, physical abuse, intimidation, destruction of personal property, swearing, extorting tuck shop or transport monies, to mention but a few,” Le Roux said. She added that one or more perpetrators who have greater physical or social power than that of the victim or victims within the educational environment participate in the act of bullying. She said bullying was not once-off but habitual. Guidelines for parents/guardians/caregivers: “Remember that the school can only act if they have factual information to deal promptly with the situation,” Le Roux said. “Parents and educational institutes must work in collaboration to prevent school bullying, to create safer school space.”