DURBAN - A 39-year-old taxi owner was shot and killed at his home in Verulam, north of Durban, on Monday. According to a witness, a white VW Polo sedan stopped on the main road outside the property. "One man came out and ran into the yard. He fired multiple shots before he sped off in the direction of Trenance Park." Reaction Unit South Africa spokesperson Prem Balram said its officers were called out by neighbours regarding the shooting around 6.39pm on Old Inanda Road known as Chabbies Garage. He said about six spent 9mm cartridges were recovered at the scene. "On arrival, a man was located lying in a prone position in the yard. He was bleeding extensively from gunshot wounds to his head and back. He showed no signs of life and was declared deceased," said Balram. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said a case of murder was being investigated by Verulam SAPS. “It is alleged that on February 14, 2022, at 6.45pm, a 40-year-old man was shot by unknown suspects while in his yard on Chubby’s Road in Verulam. He sustained multiple gunshot wounds and was declared dead at the scene,” Gwala said. Last month, four taxi owners were killed in eight days.  In one of the shootings, the victim was visiting a salon in the Berea area when he was attacked. At the time, police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala confirmed the incident, adding that charges of murder and attempted murder were being investigated by Umbilo SAPS. On January 12, a 69-year-old a taxi owner was shot and killed in a drive-by shooting in the north of Durban. A week later, taxi owner Jabulani Msomi, 43, was shot dead while in his car in Lindelani. The incidents had followed the death of a 52-year-old taxi owner, who was shot and killed in front of his family in Cornubia, north of Durban. In Madadeni, two taxi drivers were shot and killed at the Itheku Taxi Rank. They succumbed to their injuries at the scene. As previously reported, there had also been multiple reports of drivers and a taxi owner murdered in Tongaat and Verulam. As a result, The SA National Taxi Council appealed for police intervention as fatal KZN taxi shootings continue unabated. Daily News