DURBAN – The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) have made their first funding declaration to the Independent Electoral Commission of SA (IEC) since the enactment of the Political Party Funding Act. This follows the IEC’s publishing of its Quarter 3 Disclosure Report in accordance with the Political Party Funding Act and Regulations for the 2021/22 financial year. Each quarter of the financial year since the enactment of the act, parties must report to the IEC all donations over R100 000, whether in cash, in kind or both. The R100 000 is a total amount (multiple donations from the same entity are added together, and must be declared immediately when the total value reaches R100 000). The EFF had for the past two quarter reports not declared any funding to the commission. This time, the party declared the amount of R3.1 million. The ANC continues as the most funded party in South Africa with donations of up to R22.8m, with the Batho Batho Trust giving it R15m in monetary donations. The DA disclosed R12m in donations. Newcomers, ActionSA, declared R5m, R4m of which was in the form of personal protective equipment comprising face masks, hand sanitisers and face shields. Only the ANC, DA and ActionSA have consistently revealed their donations.  The cumulative amount declared in the third quarter was R46m, which is more than the R30m reported in the first quarter, but less than the R56.8m disclosed in the second. The Multi-Party Democracy Fund received a R5m donation from one of the country’s leading telecommunications companies, Vodacom. The IEC said there was a visible link between the period the declarations were made and the donations. “The number of declarations has shown a noticeable increase in the third quarter. The commission believes that this is partly a reflection of an improved understanding and wider acceptance of the act and the need for greater transparency with regard to political party funding.  “While the commission would like to see this trend continuing, it is important to recognise that this period coincided with an election period ie the 2021 local government elections. There seems to be a positive correlation between the number and size of donations on one hand, and the election period on the other,” said the IEC. Daily News