LIFESTYLE - Feriel Sonday shared some her family favourite tea time recipes with the POST: Ingredients 250g butter or Stork Bake 1 egg 250ml sugar ±3 cups cake flour (500g) 10ml baking powder 5ml vanilla essence 15ml (one tablespoon) oil Coconut filling One tablespoon butter One cup coconut Half cup sugar 2 stick cinnamon and 2 whole elachi (cardamom) Pinch fine elachi Half cup water Add all together in small pot and cook until all the water is cooked away on slow heat. Method: Dough Cream the butter and sugar. Add the oil, essence and egg. Sift the flour and baking powder. Mix to form a firm dough. Use a flute cookie cutter and place in greased patty pans. Spoon 1 teaspoon coconut filling in half of each cup.  Bake at 180ºC for 15 to 20 minutes until golden brown.  Remove from the oven.  Once cooled, spoon apricot jam next to the coconut filling.  *Lamingtons Ingredients 4 eggs 1½ cups of castor sugar 1 cup oil 1 tbs vanilla essence 2½ cups of cake flour 1 cup milk 3 tsp of baking powder ½ tsp of salt 2 cups dessicated coconut (for the coating) Coating: 1½ cups icing sugar ½ a cup cocoa powder (good quality) 3 tbs butter 1 cup hot milk 1 tsp of vanilla essence Method Preheat the oven to 180°C. Whisk the sugar and eggs in a mixer until light and fluffy – about 3 minutes. Add the oil and vanilla essence and mix again. Add the flour, salt and baking powder to the mixture alternatively with the milk. Pour the mixture into a rectangular or square greased baking tin and bake for 30 to 35 minutes at 180°C. Allow to cool and then cut off any crust. Now cut the sponge into small squares, about 4cm x 4cm (the traditional size for a lamington). Make the icing/coating by warming the milk and butter in a saucepan on medium heat. Take it off the stove and add icing sugar, vanilla essence and cocoa powder and stir well. Roll each square in the chocolate coating until all the sides are covered. Be generous here and coat the sponges well. Now roll each lamington in coconut. Decorate by piping vanilla cream and placing some caramel and walnuts on top.  *Amasi Bollas Ingredients 500ml self-raising flour 2.5ml baking powder Half tsp fine elachi (ground cardamom) 2 tsp melted butter 1 tsp vanilla essence 1 egg 15ml sugar ±300ml full cream maas or buttermilk Method Mix well and deep fry in oil until golden brown. Take care not to fry it quickly as bollas will still be raw in the centre. Dip a teaspoon in hot oil first and then scoop a teaspoon batter and place in the oil. Fry the bollas until golden brown and put on a paper towel to drain off the excess oil. Syrup the bollas in lemon flavour syrup and sprinkle fine coconut over it. For the syrup: 2 cups sugar 1 cup water 2 tsp lemon juice Allow to simmer over low heat until syrupy. *Variation: Add two pieces of cinnamon sticks and two cardamom pods while boiling the syrup. Add citric acid or small pieces of butter to prevent the sugar from crystallising. Stir the bollas in hot syrup until well covered. Take out with a slotted spoon. Sprinkle with fine coconut.  Makes ±25 bollas if using a teaspoon size.  *Follow Feriel on Facebook page: Feriel Sonday’s Heavenly Bites POST