THE University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN) has announced that management has taken the decision to suspend the academic programme after acts of violence and intimidation on Monday. UKZN’s executive director of corporate relations, Normah Zondo, said it has been reported that some student leaders have been intimidating members of staff by entering buildings and demanding that activities be halted. Zondo said there have also been blockages to some entrances to prevent staff from accessing campuses. She said not only were these acts illegal but they were also disadvantageous to all students who were intent on learning at the university. “The university views these as acts of criminality and will seek to address them in that manner, particularly as we are receiving reports of stone-throwing, damage to property and physical assaults on innocent staff members,” she said. Zondo said UKZN-appointed private security and Risk Management Services together with the South African Police Service continue to monitor the situation across all campuses to ensure the safety of students, staff, and property. She said the health and safety of UKZN’s employees and all students was a priority. “Considering the threat that seems to be imminent, university management felt it is prudent to suspend lectures for the rest of this week,” she said. She said a memorandum was handed to UKZN by students and a meeting will be held on Tuesday with the legitimate Students’ Representative Council to discuss the issues. “This meeting is part of ongoing efforts by both parties to effectively respond to the needs of our student population and to ensure a conducive learning environment on our campuses,” said Zondo. Zondo added that the management of the university appreciates the progressive and peaceful manner in which the SRC has been engaging on these matters. UKZN committed to continue working closely with the student body to ensure that the needs of students are met. The university shuttle service will also be suspended while online registration continues. “Currently, approximately 60% of our expected students have registered. Registration is continuing. Students with financial or academic holds can commence with registration in the interim. They will be automatically registered once the holds have been lifted,”  said Zondo. THE MERCURY