DURBAN - Police can use the TikTok videos that went viral on social media for the #SchoolsChallenge to arrest and prosecute those breaking the law. Earlier this week, learners from various schools in Phoenix, north of Durban, did the #SchoolsChallenge for TikTok. Videos went viral on social media of the learners disrupting traffic flow, cross-dressing and climbing on roofs and teachers’ cars. The TikTok #SchoolsChallenge started last month as a #Schoolbag - Challenge which saw learners using household items and supermarket trolleys to carry their school books. It spread to children coming to school dressed in their parents’ clothes. Social media expert Gus Silber said social media, as the name suggests, is media that is meant to be shared. So anyone who posts on any social platform, whether Facebook, Twitter, Instagram or TikTok, must expect – and in most cases, also hope – that their content will be shared by others. “TikTok content, in particular, lives and thrives on very quickly going viral. This makes it an ideal medium for hosting and encouraging pranks and ’crazes’ of this nature. “In most cases, the content is harmless and fun. But in this case, if the content has already gone viral, there is very little point in anyone trying to stop it from being shared, whatever the law or common sense might have to say,” Silber said. He said in instances where there was damage to private and state property in some of the videos, police can use the videos to find and prosecute the perpetrators. “Posting a video of an act of vandalism, damage to property, or any other crime on social media will indeed prove very helpful to the police and other authorities in their investigations,” Silber said. He said as it has been demonstrated in many cases, here and abroad, it would not be too difficult for police to track people down based on the evidence posted on their social media timelines. “It’s a curious phenomenon of the digital age that people are willing and happy to incriminate themselves in this way,” Silber said. KZN Parents Association chairperson Vee Gani said he was not surprised by the learners’ behaviour because they had seen that there were more discipline challenges. It was disrupting education, leaving the schooling system to suffer, she said. Gani described it as “risky” and “damaging” behaviour. “We can’t have that. We already have many challenges. For example, we’ve been hit by Covid-19,” Gani said. “TikTok is just pupils looking for attention. It’s not acceptable. It’s causing disruption and damage to things. It’s a criminal offence and disrupting traffic,” Gani added. He said there must be repercussions. On Tuesday morning, police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said pupils from different schools in Phoenix had embarked on rebellious behaviour by illegally gathering in groups, stoning vehicles, disrupting school and damaging school property. “At 12pm (noon) they decided to move to Woodview Park, chanting, running around with sticks in the park. The police were called and the crowd was dispersed,” Mbele said. Phoenix community policing forum chairperson Umesh Singh said he was glad the TikTok challenges were nipped in the bud because some learners overdid it. He said only a handful of schools were involved, adding that all the areas were quiet on Tuesday. LECS Protection Services said: “Officers and members were placed on high alert after a tip-off was received advising that nearby schools would be participating in the uMlando Challenge.” Daily News