Durban - ActionSA has boldly predicted its growth in KwaZulu-Natal, this after the party saw a significant increase of influential figures joining its ranks in the province.  ActionSA has recently added former EFF councillor Bongani Caluza from Harry Gwala District and Sipho Mashinga from Ugu District to its ranks.  The party leadership in KZN believes that these developments will see it grow its support in different parts of the province which is a good foundation for the 2024 general elections. “Another example of growth in KZN was experienced this past weekend in KwaNongoma, as ActionSA proved that is not a political party for urban people but an organisation that is for all South Africans who want to play their role in fixing South Africa,” said KZN chairperson Musa Kubheka. He noted that as part of the expansion programme, ActionSA had successfully launched in Zululand District, with Elias Ntuli, a seasoned politician and former national chairperson of the National People’s Front (NAFP), appointed as the regional campaign manager. According to Kubheka, Ntuli’s appointment was endorsed by ActionSA’s Senate, which is the organisation’s highest decision making body.  “Project 2024 is gaining momentum in KwaZulu-Natal and ActionSA is committed to building structures across the province. The objective is to be found in every single district, in each municipality and in every ward. It is in this spirit that uMkhanyakude District Municipality will be launched on February 19, 2022. This launch will be closely followed by that of uThukela District Municipality on February 26, 2022,”  Kubheka continued. The chairperson said ActionSA was committed to bringing real change to the people of KwaZulu-Natal and to offer communities in traditional IFP and ANC strongholds a viable alternative.  “With ActionSA, voters will be afforded an opportunity to negate the sympathy vote that has characterised elections since the dawn of democracy in 1994, and instead opt for an organisation that has proven that it is people-centred and committed to the restoration of the rule of law,”  Kubheka stressed. ActionSA also noted that rural communities across the province were battling social ills influenced by high rates of unemployment prompted by the closure of factories. “ActionSA in KZN is growing and the people of this province have demonstrated that they are willing to play their role and ensure that in 2024, South Africa is no longer under the rule of the ANC government,” Kubheka said. THE MERCURY