DURBAN - KWAZULU-NATAL Premier Sihle Zikalala said the province is looking at alternative energy generation options.  He delivered his 2022 State of the Province Address yesterday in Pietermaritzburg in front of guests including Zulu King Misuzulu KaZwelithini, and KwaZulu-Natal Deputy Judge President Isaac Madondo. The premier acknowledged that one area that had been stifling the province’s economic prospects has been the persistent energy shortage resulting in load shedding, adding that the government was taking various steps to secure energy supply.  He said the province had always positioned itself for alternative energy generation.  “In this regard, the executive council has constituted a team to work on alternative energy generation including working with municipalities to fast-track energy generation. “The team is led by the MEC for EDTEA (Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs) and is composed of the MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison; MEC for Cogta (Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs); and, MEC for Human Settlements and Public Works. The team will provide quarterly reports to the executive council,” he said. Zikalala said the Department of Minerals and Energy had approved the appointment of professional service providers to undertake a study to develop the provincial integrated electrification master plan to enable municipalities to generate their own energy. He added that the government would launch a feasibility study on green hydrogen electricity, noting that the strategic position of the province, together with its weather conditions, provided great potential for green hydro energy. “The abundance of sugarcane gives the province a competitive edge to become a leader in biofuels, especially ethanol for blended energy solutions. This is critical in the light of the escalation of fossil fuel prices and the demand for low carbon (energy) sources. “Thus we have resuscitated the engagement with the minister of Minerals and Energy on expediting the bill on bioethanol,” Zikalala said. Speaking on Sapref, the premier said the government was disappointed by the decision to indefinitely suspend refinery operations in Durban by the end of March 2022. “We are of the firm view that retaining refinery operations in the province is key for economic growth and job creation. For that reason, we have called on national government to buy Sapref, not only to protect jobs, but to build the capacity of the state.” University of Zululand-based political economist Professor Irrshad Kaseeram said it was important for the provincial government to pursue alternative energy as this was the way to the future. He added that a strong partnership should be built between government, the private sector, higher education institutions and communities in pursuit of alternative energy sources. “Many countries are now pursuing green energy and South Africa should not lag behind in this race. “KwaZulu-Natal’s geographical location means that it has areas it can tap into for alternative energy sources and this is what needs to be explored,” said Kaseeram. He cautioned against the government’s desire to purchase the Sapref refinery, saying while this may look appealing there were no guarantees that it would be viable. “State-owned entities have not performed well over the past years and have become a burden to the taxpayer. “The question to consider is why did the private company decide to close the refinery? What should be done is pursuing alternative energy sources, something where the province appears to have an edge on,” said Kaseeram. Siyabonga Ntombela, from the University of KwaZulu-Natal, noted that the premier dedicated a portion of the speech talking about municipalities, saying this was an acknowledgement of the crucial role of local government in service delivery. “When we look at it, the provision of water, electricity and refuse removal, even in big cities, is the duty that is performed by municipalities. What will be crucial is how much capacity is the provincial government giving to the local sphere to enable these targets set out to be met,” said Ntombela. THE MERCURY