A 55-YEAR-OLD response officer from Eagle Eye Protection Services (EEPS) was shot dead during a robbery in Gwala’s Farm informal settlement in Tongaat on Monday. This comes after Blue Security officer Innocent Simphiwe Ntaka was killed while responding to a robbery at a shop in Doonside, eManzimtoti, on Saturday. Provincial police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said the incident took place just after 5pm yesterday when the man was approached by three suspects. “A 55-year-old man was seated in a car at Gwala’s Farm informal settlement in Tongaat when he was shot by while he was paying the security guards,” she said. Mbele said the man was declared dead at the scene. “The suspects robbed him of his firearm with 17 rounds of ammunition as well as cash before fleeing the scene on foot,” she said. Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) spokesperson Prem Balram said the Tongaat Operations Centre received a call at about 5.30pm from a resident in the area who reported the shooting. “Reaction Officers found the response officer in a branded silver Isuzu bakkie. He sustained a single gunshot wound to his abdomen and died on the scene,” he said. He said two spent 9mm cartridges were recovered. Balram said the dead man’s colleague was also in the vehicle at the time of the shooting but was not injured. “He informed reaction officers that they were awaiting the arrival of their security officers when suspects approached the officer. They fired two shots at him before they stole his 9mm firearm and fled on foot,” he said. Mbele said the matter was being investigated by Tongaat SAPS. “We are appealing to members of the community and employers not to carry large amounts of cash. They must consider the safest options including transferring money or salaries into the bank accounts of employees to avoid being victims of crime,”said Mbele. A statement issued by EEPS yesterday said Tongaat had lost a hero. “Our hearts are aching today (Monday). We feel it physically. We feel it deeply. Tongaat & EEPS has lost a hero – a remarkable man because of the depths of his commitment to all around him. “Our eagles fly low as we mourn the loss of our Beloved J1 also known as ”June“ to many. J1 will be sorely missed by the Eagle Eye family as well as the community as he led by example and did community service apart from doing his job and keeping his town safe,” said the statement. THE MERCURY