DURBAN - COUNCILLORS in KwaDukuza Municipality have called for more staff to be deployed at the Groutville Clinic following complaints by health groups in the area that staff shortages were leading to chronic patients defaulting on the treatment. KwaDukuza Municipality council whip Humphrey Mbatha said councillors had gone to the clinic after civil society groups including the Treatment Action Campaign had complained that HIV/Aids and TB patients serviced by the Groutville clinic were defaulting on collecting their medication. The groups had picketed during the ILembe District HIV/Aids and TB Behavioural Change Campaign led by the KZN Office of the Premier, Department of Health and ILembe District Municipality held last week. During the inspection in-loco of the clinic, the delegation of councillors and department officials found that while the government built a state-of-the-art facility, the staffing of the clinic was very low which was seen as a significant contributing factor for people defaulting. In its presentation, said the municipality in a statement,  the clinic conceded to the following challenges:  Mbatha and his delegation also engaged with the community and he detailed some of the staff challenges they witnessed. “People have raised the issue of queues as a matter that has to be dealt with urgency, today, we saw it first-hand that eight nurses and one doctor, assisted by two other doctors who only service the clinic Wednesdays, must service some 1500 patients a day, leaving some unhappy and disgruntled. Working with Health (department) and all stakeholders present, we must find a solution to this, so that we afford our people equitable access to health,” said Mbatha. “We have given the clinic and clinic committee until 15 March 2022 to provide an update particularly dealing with queues and staff shortages. “I will also inform the council of the challenges that have been presented so we can lobby the department of health to beef up capacity,” concluded Mbatha. The Department of Health said it was unaware of people that had defaulted on their medications and asked for the details of the affected individuals so it could assist them.  THE MERCURY