DURBAN - The public can now register to attend the Proudly South African 2022 Buy Local Summit and Expo, to support locals and learn more about the importance of localisation and the campaign’s role in rebuilding the economy. This year’s summit themed “Reset, Rebuild and Recover” aims to showcase the significant role of localisation as a driver of economic reconstruction and recovery. It will be held virtually from March 14 to March 16. This was revealed by the campaign’s CEO, Eustace Mashimbye, at the media launch of Proudly South African’s 10th annual and second virtual Buy Local Summit and Expo held in Bryanston, Johannesburg, on Thursday. Attendees explored the exhibition floor to buy items using vouchers for 12 different and diverse ranges of locally produced goods, including coffee, tea, hair products, gin, chocolates, honey, tools, jewellery, clothes, spices and stationery. The 2022 summit aims to offer a dynamic and informative programme, including technical innovation sessions, the Fourth Industrial Revolution, benefits of Special Economic Zones on localisation, job creation and economic growth. It will also include consumer activations, educational workshops, and a business solutions hub. The first day will emphasise the significant role of small businesses. Day two will offer sessions on the pros and cons of localisation, while day three will have practical workshops for entrepreneurs and business owners. Mashimbye said localisation was a central pillar of the country’s economic recovery plans. “Through stimulating demand for locally manufactured goods in industries such as steel, poultry, sugar, furniture and clothing, the government hopes to revitalise South Africa’s manufacturing base and significantly boost job creation.” Mashimbye said the summit would play a key role in supporting South Africans by showcasing the wide range of quality, competitive South African goods and services on offer. “It will also offer small business owners and entrepreneurs training workshops and networking opportunities to drive industrialisation.” Director Mzwanele Memane, representing the Department of Small Business, said people were complaining that the private sector and the government were not creating jobs. “Universities have graduates every year but they are unemployed. We support small businesses to grow profitable. We want informal businesses to become micro-enterprises, spaza shops to become retailers, and retailers become mini-wholesalers.” • Stream on YouTube and register at www.buylocalsummit.co.za Daily News