LIFESTYLE - It is important to put thought and planning into your wedding jewellery, advise experts. From various trends that are shaping the market today, to juggling budgets and considering pieces as wearable investments, local jewellers shared insights with the POST. Aashir Narandas is a third-generation jeweller and spokesperson for Narandas Jewellers, which has been manufacturing and retailing fine jewellery since 1915. Although bridal jewellery demand continues to rebound from a Covid-hit global economy, Narandas said the demand was still below pre-pandemic levels, but that they do expect a return to grand weddings this year. “We are seeing a move towards brides opting to wear fewer pieces, but more substantial wearable pieces. Covid-19 placed additional pressure on proposers and weddings, with the size of weddings decreasing significantly. This has negatively impacted the purchasing of wedding jewellery, especially gold sets,” he said.  Trends Narandas said yellow gold was making a comeback, with modern, lightweight and more versatile jewellery set designs, with a hint of tradition, becoming increasingly popular among brides-to-be. “It remains a custom to gift gold jewellery. Gold is always seen as a safe haven or a store of value. The rise in gold price actually increases the desirability of gold jewellery. The trend of maximalist glamour will see brides embracing oversized statement earrings and necklaces over more demure, understated style. “We have many requests to re-imagine family heirlooms into on-trend styles. That’s the benefit of precious metals – being able to remodel into bespoke pieces. In terms of affordability, nine-carat gold is a preferred alternative.” Narandas said there was a real sense that the brides-to-be wanted to make the ring as special as possible, moving towards more unusual and detailed designs and less traditional solitaire styles.  ‘More is more’ “In this case again, more is more. Rings with multiple stones, especially baguettes for maximum impact, are becoming increasingly popular. Vintage-styled engagement rings are back in fashion, popular for their heirloom feel and detailed intricate design. "Although round brilliant-cut diamonds remain the preferred choice, we are seeing princess and cushion settings as another customer favourite. “We are happy to see that proposals are returning to pre-pandemic behaviours. Although yellow gold engagement rings are making a strong comeback, white gold remains the most popular choice. "My advice is to stick to timeless designs as there are always ways to make the conventional look absolutely extraordinary. When it comes to the centre diamond, don’t compromise on quality. Rather opt for a smaller stone with better colour and clarity.”  Options Narandas said engagement rings were an important investment. “Post-pandemic more couples want to focus on the meaningful things in life, which include the romantic gesture of proposals and buying meaningful rings. Therefore, the allure and rarity of a brilliant diamond engagement ring remains strong." And if the budget is tight, there are options to consider apart from diamonds. “The bigger the better trend continues. Lab-created diamonds are a great option. We have seen an increase in enquiries for lab-grown diamonds. Technology and production of high-quality lab-created diamonds have greatly improved and penetrated a wider consumer market internationally due to a significant price difference with natural diamonds. Another popular alternative is to re-set inherited or heirloom diamonds. “Precious stones set in gold or rose gold are a great option, especially for their symbolic meaning. Here sapphires (symbolic of romance and devotion), emeralds (symbolic of peace and harmony) and rubies (symbolic of love and passion) are the best options."