DURBAN - Two people were killed in a drive-by shooting in Inanda on Saturday. The bodies of two men were found in a sugar cane plantation in Inanda yesterday afternoon. According to spokesperson for Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) Prem Balram, its reaction officers and medics were dispatched to the scene of the incident, after they were contacted by a motorist. The motorist had seen the occupants of a white BMW opening fire on a white Toyota Avanza with rifles. “The caller informed the controller on duty that the Toyota Avanza was travelling from Inanda in the direction of Verulam when the BMW overtook and opened fire. He went on to explain that the Toyota Avanza veered off the road and into a sugar cane plantation. He could not confirm if the occupants were injured and continued driving as he was concerned for his safety,” added Balram. Balram said that on arrival, reaction officers met with officials from the metro police. “First responders entered the cane field and located the Toyota Avanza approximately 50 metres from the road. The vehicle had been shot in excess of 20 times,” he stated. He added that upon inspection, it was discovered that there were no occupants in the vehicle. Two separate blood trails were noticed, leading further into the cane field in different directions. Officers followed the blood trails and discovered the bullet riddled bodies of two men. They were fatally injured in the shooting.  The motive for the shooting has not been confirmed at this stage. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said that charges of murder are being investigated by the Verulam police. “It is alleged that yesterday on the M27 Jabu Ngcobo Road, a vehicle was found in a sugar cane field with bullet holes. Inside the sugar cane field, police found two bodies of males believed to be in their twenties with multiple gunshot wounds to the body,” she said. Gwala added that both victims were certified dead at the scene. The circumstances surrounding the incident are being investigated. THE MERCURY