DURBAN - The uMthayi Marula Festival marked the relaunch of the East Three Route Expedition, a project aimed at strengthening mutually beneficial links between KwaZulu-Natal, Swaziland and Mozambique in terms of trade and tourism. Thousands of people from Umhlabuyalingana flocked to the Emfihlweni Royal Palace, to present their marula harvest to Inkosi yakwaTembe Mabhudu Tembe. Inkosi Tembe is the traditional leader of the Tembe clan, which spans across the South African and Mozambique borders, and enjoys a close relationship with the Swaziland Royal Family. Speakers at the official event spoke of the economic potential the festival had for the people of the Umkhanyakude Local Municipality, with the help of the government. Inkosi Tembe said the event was an untraceable ancient celebration involving three of the four most southern African countries. “UMthayi is our pride, as it connects all our countries. It has an untraceable history; it was a part of our upbringing, and has led us to today. However, it has a unifying message for the people of the Tembe clan, who are outside the borders. The last festival, two years ago, attracted more than 20 000 people, and was moving into better territories. “Covid-19 dealt a major blow to the expansion of the marula fruit which is the cornerstone of the festival. We have managed to move beyond the alcohol production, to jam and skincare production,” he said. MEC for Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, Ravi Pillay, said the KwaZulu-Natal government was present to show not only its support, but cement the East Three Route Expedition, which was initiated by Michael Mabuyakhulu. “Our government is committed to Inkosi Tembe, and his people in our unwavering support. But, we are not only supporting this event, it is important that we come and show the people that we are indeed reviving the East Three Route Expedition, which will ensure an interconnected financial benefit for all in the region.” Delivering a speech on behalf of the KZN premier, Arts and Culture MEC Hlengiwe Mavimbela said the construction of the road towards Mozambique was the beginning of the reconnection of the southern African countries. “Governments have had the vision to reconnect the region here, with the help of the Tembe tribe, but have found it difficult to implement the plans. Our government has done what most failed to do, and completed the Maputo-Catembe bridge,” Mavimbela said. Other key speakers included uMntwana Phila Zulu, who delivered a message of support from Zulu King Misuzulu kaZwelithini, and a representative who spoke on behalf of the Swaziland Royal Family. Daily News