DURBAN - The National Council of SPCAs (NSPCA) and the public were left unimpressed with the handling of West Ham United’s Kurt Zouma’s animal abuse incident. Recently there was an uproar after a video went viral of footballer Zouma drop kicking his cat. The video shows Zouma drop-kicking and slapping his cat while he and others laughed. The organisation said the cats (two) have been removed from his custody and taken to a place of safety, and the public is calling for Zouma to be prosecuted. In a statement released by West Ham United on Wednesday, the club said it was supporting an investigation by the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (RSPCA) into Zouma’s actions. The club also said Zouma was fined the maximum amount possible following his actions in the video that circulated. The player has immediately accepted the fine, which both he and the club agreed will be donated to animal welfare charities. Zouma was also on the starting line-up when the Hammers faced Watford on Tuesday night. Reacting to the incident and recent developments, the NSPCA said it was disturbed by West Ham United’s decision to still keep Zouma on their team after fining the £29m player £250 000 - just two weeks' wages. “It is not about the money. It is about the fact that an animal was made to suffer deliberately and the abuser is walking freely. The fact that West Ham United has kept Zouma on their team is an indication that they are willing to support animal abusers,” the NSPCA said. The organisation said Zouma was a ‘star’ to whom many looked up to but was this the example we want to follow? Is the message that is being sent to society one that says that it is okay to abuse an animal because you can pay your way out of it? “The NSPCA commends Adidas and Vitality for withdrawing their support toward Zouma and West Ham United following the discovery of the videos,” the NSPCA said. “People who deliberately cause animals to suffer should be prosecuted and left to face the full might of the law.” Reacting to the NSPCA’s post, this is what social media users said: Padmani Nair said she agreed with the NSPCA. “These abusers of animals are certainly capable of causing harm and abuse to humans as well… it’s a pity the law is not stringent enough to deal with them when animals are abused… in my opinion, the law is an enabler of the abusers we see and hear of on a daily basis.” Meryl Cochrane said: “The fact that he and his friends were having fun laughing and enjoying torturing the cat absolutely abhorrent. And then they posted on social media which a row of laughing emotes just to emphasize how funny it was. The man is a disgrace.” Sue Prophet said: “If you laugh at animal abuse you are in agreement with the abuser. There is no excuse for the behaviour of this guy and the team should all be punished for the disgraceful way they represented themselves to the world.” Audrey Julyan said she will no longer support West ham United because it did not take a stand against animal abusers. She congratulated Adidas and Vitality. Then said may Zouma get what was coming to him. Daily News