Durban – The South African Depression and Anxiety Group (Sadag) has urged people to open up about their mental health and seek professional help.  The group offered condolences to the family of the late hip hop musician, Rikhado ‘Riky Rick’ Makhado.  Makhado died in the early hours of Wednesday at the age of 34. While the cause of death has not been disclosed, it is believed that he took his own life. Makhado had previously spoken about dealing with depression. Sadag deputy board chairperson and clinical psychologist Zamo Mbele said Makhado’s death should be a conversation starter. “His passing, like his music, must be a powerful reminder of the important and lifesaving conversation about the scourge of suicide in our society. No one should be next, let’s talk and let us help. Escaping the pain, grief and distress that many people look to suicide for, does not need to cost one’s life. Instead, through skilled help, you can escape your distress and save a life,” said Mbele. The group said suicide was a complex issue and a combination of individual, societal and community factors could contribute to a person wanting to end their life. Sadag board member Nkini Phasha said societal expectations also played a part. “The sad and harsh reality is that the ‘the tigers don’t cry’ phenomenon is still rife in our society, which drives men to suffer in silence.The recent suicides by men, in particular, tells us we have a huge problem in our society.  “We, as men, must learn to accept that we’re human and that mental health is a real medical condition. It’s not a sign of weakness. We must talk more and seek the professional help that’s available. One life lost is too many,” Phasha said. People who have feelings of helplessness or hopelessness are urged to phone Sadag’s Suicide Helpline at 0800 567 567. Alternatively, they can call other Sadag helplines at 0800 456 789, 0800 21 22 23 or 0800 70 80 90, SMS 31393 or visit www.sadag.org. The organisation said people should also seek help from a psychologist, GP, psychiatrist, social worker or registered counsellor, or visit their local hospital or clinic. THE MERCURY