DURBAN - There has been another political murder in KwaZulu-Natal, this time in Greytown Central Business District.  Umvoti Local Municipality ward 13 ANC councillor Thembinkosi Lombo was shot dead while walking to a food outlet on Friday.  His murder brings the total to at least five ANC members that were shot and killed in two months. The Umzinyathi District Municipality has the following local municipalities: Msinga,  Nqutu, Umvoti and Endumeni. Secretary of the ANC Inkosi Bhambatha Region, Bheki Lembethe, said Lombo was killed in broad daylight.  He said the region was  becoming a zone of brutal killings directed at political leaders, with several killed in recent years. He said it remained a puzzle as to when these killings would end. “On behalf of the ANC and the entire mass democratic movement, we convey our deepest condolences to the Lombo family and the entire community of ward 13 Umvoti municipality. We dip our revolutionary banners in honouring a selfless well-lived life.  A life lived to serve fellow mankind. May we all strive to emulate his humility, passion and love for the people and the ANC,” Lembethe said. Lombo was elected as a ward councillor at Umvoti local municipality, representing the ANC, in November 2021. Lembethe said Lombo’s assassination came at the time when the ANC was well ahead in completing the work of tilting the balance of power in the leadership of Umvoti local municipality.  He described Lombo as a loyal and dedicated member of the ANC. He said his leadership of the community of ward 13 at Umvoti inspired hope. Lembethe added that the deceased served in various structures of the organisation, stemming from the ranks of the ANCYL, and later led the South African National Civic Organisation at regional and provincial level respectively. “We remain with no speculations as to what could have been the motive for his brutal killing at this stage, but we entrust the SAPS to work towards solving this brutal and inhumane crime. ANC Inkosi Bhambatha region calls for calm and co-operation as we appeal to our members and community at large to work with the law enforcement agencies to help solve this crime and apprehend the assailants,” he said. Earlier this month, the ANC and newly formed political party Abantu Batho Congress (ABC) unsuccessfully tried to oust the IFP from power through a vote of no confidence. South African Police Services are investigating a case of murder.  Last weekend, two ANC members were shot dead on Baker Road after coming out of a meeting. Four men approached them and opened fire. “Unfortunately, a 51-year-old man and a 35-year-old man sustained multiple gunshot wounds. They were both declared dead at the scene. Others managed to flee,” said police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala. Since the start of the year, two other ANC politicians have been shot dead in eThekwini. Former eThekwini ANC ward councillor Bheki Mvubu was killed on his way home in February while Minenhle Mkhize was also gunned down at his home in January. To comment on this story send a WhatsApp message to our Backchat column on 071 485 7995 Daily News