DURBAN - THE city employee gunned down in his office earlier this week had been receiving death threats for two years prior to his assassination on Monday afternoon. His family also revealed that even shortly before his death, the threats were still being made. One person has been arrested in connection with the murder and is alleged to be an employee of the eThekwini Municipality, in the same unit. Nkosinathi Amos Ngcobo, a superintendent with the Water and Sanitation Unit, was shot inside his office in the municipal premises in Springfield. He was shot several times and died at the scene. A family spokesperson, Nkosi Mahlangu, who is the deceased’s brother in law, said Ngcobo had alerted them to the threats at work although he was not clear on the source and nature of the threats. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said: “We can confirm that the police arrested a 31-year-old man for murder, and he has appeared in the Durban Magistrate’s Court.” Natasha Ramkisson-Kara of the National Prosecuting Authority in KZN said the accused has been charged with murder and would be back in court on March 3. The family said they understood that the accused was not the hitman, but had allegedly instigated the attack. EThekwini Municipality spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said they were not aware of the arrest. “However, we reiterate the words of mayor Mxolisi Kaunda that the police must leave no stone unturned, and that whoever is found to be responsible must face the full might of the law.” Deputy mayor Philani Mavundla and other city officials visited the Ngcobo family home yesterday to pay their respects.   Ngcobo was shot soon after some employees had “demonstrated” in the morning in an alleged wage dispute. The family now suspect that the protest, based on how the event unfolded, was a ruse by instigators to cause chaos and give the assassins an opportunity to enter the premises. “The threats had been ongoing for two years. We do not know the source of the threats. Even in the weeks before and on the day he was killed, he was being threatened. But he soldiered on, went to work despite the threats. He was a strong and principled man,” he said. Mahlangu spoke of the day they received the news. “I am married to his sister, we were together when she received the phone call and she just collapsed. All she said was that Ngcobo had been shot at work, so we rushed there.” Mahlangu said he hoped those involved in the murder were arrested and prosecuted. “They have taken away the main breadwinner of this family. He and his wife had been together for years and they still called each other ‘babe’.” Ngcobo’s neighbour Allyn Nunkoo said he was stunned to learn that the person he had read about in the news was his neighbour, adding that Ngcobo was a kind and calm man. “I saw an article and I was shocked. I asked my wife what kind of world do we live in where a person is killed at their workplace. I did not know it was Amos, this is shocking, I have known him for about a year, he was a nice person,” he said. THE MERCURY