DURBAN - THE plight of the disabled when looking for jobs was laid bare by a woman, who attended the mother-and-daughter high tea dialogue which was hosted this week by Social Development MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza. Khoza and the Minister in the Presidency for women, youth and persons with disabilities, Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, hosted the event in Durban on Tuesday. The initiative aims to create an environment to help women develop constructive, affirmative and sustainable relationships while providing opportunities for them to build their competencies and skills. As the event kicked off, 26-year-old Senzeni Mkhize, who is disabled, spoke about the challenges she has faced while trying to find a job. Mkhize, who said she holds an honours degree in social sciences from the University of KwaZulu-Natal, said most companies lacked the infrastructure to accommodate her. “We as disabled women are not included. When you get to an interview you find that there are stairs and you cannot use a wheelchair there or you get a call from a company saying you qualify for the job but the infrastructure is not suitable for you. Sometimes you get to an interview and they do not ask you about your skills, rather whether you are able to hold a pen.” She said she had to move from her home town because the infrastructure was not suitable for someone who uses a wheelchair and she now resides at the Cheshire Home in Chatsworth. She said a lot of disabled people were unemployed and excluded in society because facilities do not accommodate them. Touched by the story, Khoza then offered Mkhize a job. Khoza said she was making the offer to Mkhize not because she was a woman. She said Mkhize had the right qualifications. Other women who attended the event spoke about the difficulties in their everyday lives. One of the main topics was gender-based violence which they said was exacerbated by poverty. Businesswoman Zanele Mbokazi encouraged mothers to speak to their daughters about sex. She also encouraged young women to be financially independent and to seek out mentorship opportunities. Khoza said similar dialogues would be held in the rural areas. “It is important that we create our own platforms as women and girls to engage on some of the pressing challenges we face, including unemployment rates among the youth and gender-based violence in our homes and communities,” she said. THE MERCURY