Durban: Families living in RDP homes in Welbedacht near Chatsworth want answers from the eThekwini Municipality for not providing them with pre-paid electricity. Some residents claim they have been waiting for more than a decade and have been forced to resort to connecting electricity illegally, so they can refrigerate their food. However, the Municipality said it had rolled out pre-paid meters to the community five years ago, and will be launching an investigation into how some families were left behind. From the time Chadritha Pillay was born, she lived in a wood and iron house. When it rained, her home flooded and during heavy winds, she feared the roof of her home would fly off. At first, the home did not have water and electricity but as the years progressed her family managed to install pre-paid meters. When Pillay, 46, got married, she built her own wood and iron home on the same property as her parents. They had ablution facilities, running water and electricity. Ten years ago, the Department of Human Settlements and the municipality allocated a two-bedroom RDP (Reconstruction and Development Programme) home to Pillay. "I was so excited. All my life, I lived in a wood and iron home. I thought I would finally live in a brick home. It felt like a dream come true. When we received the keys from the representatives from the department, we were told that a pre-paid electricity box would be fitted in the coming weeks. It's now been a decade and nothing has happened." Pillay, who is unemployed, said she complained to her councillor, Anoop Rampersad, from the DA but had not received feedback. "I voted for my councillor because he promised to help us get electricity. This was in November and now it's February. I am worried that the situation will never be resolved." Pillay shares her home with her son, 22, an employee at a security company. He is the sole breadwinner. "My son does not earn much money. He pays for his transportation to work and then purchases food for us. We connect electricity illegally in order to keep our food fresh. We are already living from hand to mouth and we cannot afford the taxi fare of R26 a day to go the shop to buy food for the day." Pillay said she knew the illegal connections were wrong but felt she had no choice. "What do we do? We are living on empty promises. Almost every month a team from the municipality comes to the area with security and cuts the illegal connections. By the next day, because of this heat, the meat, milk and other items are spoilt. We are left with no food. The municipality claims to be caring but they are not." Tashe Singh, 34, a housewife, said her family had also been waiting a decade for help. She lives with her in-laws who are pensioners. Her husband, 34, works for a flooring company and have two children, a five year old and an eight month old baby. "My in-laws lived in a wood and iron home. They got this RDP home 10 years ago. For years they have been promised pre-paid electricity but nothing has materialised. We cook, boil water for bathing and my baby's milk on an outside fire. It is a real struggle. We have spoken to our councillor on a number of occasions but nothing is done." Singh said they have also resorted to connecting electricity illegally. "We do it sometimes because we don't want the food that we have in our fridge to go bad. It is like we are throwing away money. The municipality needs to see the effects of their failure to deliver." Vassie Pillay, a community activist, said she was trying to find a resolution. "When these families moved into the RDP homes, it was supposed to make life better but they are stuck in the same position. Most of the families are unemployed. They collect a grant or sell cosmetics or fruit and vegetables to make a living. They were promised electricity and the municipality has to deliver." Pillay said she approached the municipality and the councillor for the area seeking answers but never got a proper response. "They cannot allow people to continue to live like this. eThekwini has a huge electricity shortage problem in the formal areas due to illegal electricity connections. The only reason electricity is connected illegally is that the municipality has failed to deliver on the pre-paid meters." Selvan Moodley, the spokesperson for the Chatsworth and District Civic Federation, said the area affected by the illegal connections was Arena Park. "When electricity is connected illegally our transformers overload causing it to blow up. This results in power shortages in the community and it leads to people's food being spoiled." Moodley said the live wires for the illegal connection were a concern as children going to school or the shop could get electrocuted if they were not careful. "We want the municipality to put a lock on the substations in the area and have them fenced to prevent theft. The municipality should set up sub-stations around the RDP homes. They built the homes together with the Department of Human Settlements and the residents have a right to water and electricity." Rampersad said he was aware that electricity had not been installed in the RDP houses. "I then called the residents that were affected to meet with me collectively and to bring along documents pertaining to the ownership of the RDP homes. I further made copies of the same with their IDs and sent them to the electricity department. In January, I did a follow-up, only to be told that I should be in discussions with the Department of Human Settlements." Lindiwe Khuzwayo, the spokesperson for the eThekwini Municipality, said: "According to the municipality's records, RDP homes in Welbedacht East have electrified five years ago but the city will thoroughly investigate how  the residents in question left behind." Khuzwayo said the municipality was not aware of any challenges surrounding its rollout of outsmart meters. She said more than 50 000 smart meters were installed and the rollout continued as expected. "Theft of electricity continues to be a huge concern in both electrified and non-electrified areas within the city. The electricity unit's revenue protection department conducts disconnections almost every second day in areas notorious for electricity theft. The city also has a team that investigates and prosecutes syndicates of cable theft and illegal electricity connections.” Mbulelo Baloyi, the spokesperson for the Department of Human Settlements, said: "With respect to the provisioning of electricity, the Department of Human Settlements in all its housing projects is only involved with the construction of housing units and the municipality in which those housing projects are implemented is responsible for electricity reticulation or wiring and connecting the beneficiaries to the municipal grid depending whether it is prepaid or not. "So in this instance, eThekwini Municipality Electricity would be the suitable entity responsible for connecting those houses." The Post