Durban: Illegal electricity connections in parts of Sea Cow Lake outside Durban could soon be a thing of the past. The eThekwini Municipality said work was under way to connect residents of the Johanna Road informal settlement to the grid and the project was expected to be completed by August. The R2.4 million electrification plan would service all the informal homes, the municipality said. Bobby Maharajh, the ward 34 councillor, said residents from the formal houses often complained that electricity was stolen and they were left with bills that ran into hundreds of thousands of rand. In addition, it led to infrastructure damage, power outages and inconvenience as the formal residents spent hours trying to be reconnected to the grid. Maharajh said several of the ward’s residents were elderly people. They spent hundreds of rand per day on medication that had to be refrigerated and it was spoilt during the power failures, he said. “We have cables that run from one tree to another, cables that are dug up, and children play close to those wires,” said Maharajh. Several of the fires caused in informal settlements in his ward, which included the areas of Sea Cow Lake, Red Hill and Avoca, resulted in residents losing all their possessions, he said. “Fires are caused by naked cables and we have also seen several children who have been electrocuted because of these cables.” Msawakhe Mayisela, the spokesperson for the city, said electricity theft was one of its biggest concerns in both electrified and non-electrified areas. Poverty, a mob mentality and high electricity costs were major drivers of illegal connections that affected a number of areas and cost the city millions of rand every year, he said. Mayisela said the illegal connections were not only limited to informal settlements but could be found across the city. “There are numerous incidents of electrocution and fatalities. Most go unreported because the people affected in most cases are perpetrators and fear reprisals from communities.  “This (Johanna Road) informal settlement had been connected illegally, disrupting the sewer pump that affects the whole sanitation of the city." When POST visited the area, illegally connected cables could be seen hanging overhead throughout the informal settlement. Even fridges in a local spaza shop were powered by electricity from an adjoining shack, which was illegally connected to the grid. Approached for comment, residents were surprised that the area would be electrified and pointed to the cables saying they were already linked to the power supply. Thobani Sibiya, who lived in the settlement three times a week because it was close to his workplace, said most of the shacks already had electricity. “We don't need lights. What we need is water and the place must be cleaned up because people dump everything, anywhere. It’s not healthy.” Most of the formal homes adjacent to the settlement seemed abandoned, or the residents remained locked indoors.  The Post