Durban: The father of Mahomed Dangor believes they are a step closer to getting justice after the man accused of killing his son was found guilty. Confidence Sekgoro, 39, appeared in the North West High Court on Thursday last week. He was charged with murder and two counts of attempted murder following the shooting of Dangor, 32, at his family business, Speedy Car Sales, in Klerksdorp in 2019. Dangor was shot in the chest and died at the scene, while his co-worker, Mehboob Soomra, 36, a sales manager, and Yusuf Ally, 61, a friend, were injured. Henry Mamothame, the spokesperson for the National Prosecuting Authority in the North West, said Sekgoro bought the car in April 2019 from the dealership. He then took the vehicle to Mafikeng. "Later on, Sekgoro complained about some defaults on the car, to which the dealership obliged and took it back for inspection in Klerksdorp at a cost of approximately R4 700." Mamothame said the inspection results, however, showed no defaults to the car as it was serviced before it was purchased. “The dealership ordered Sekgoro to pay for the costs of transportation before they could release his car back to him. He then approached the North West High Court on an urgent basis for his car to be given back to him. The court, however, dismissed his application and the matter was struck off the roll." Mamothame said on November 11, 2019, the accused went to the dealership to collect his motor vehicle but Soomra, after consulting with the dealership attorney, told him to pay for the transportation costs before getting the car. “He was then told to wait for Dangor, who was the son of the dealership owner, to further engage on the matter. Sekgoro then went to the office of the deceased, who was in the company of Ally. An argument ensued before he started shooting at them. He proceeded to chase after Soomra in the showroom and fired shots at him.” Mamothame said Dangor was declared dead on the scene. “Soomra and Ally were rushed to a nearby hospital after sustaining serious injuries. Following this shooting, Sekgoro asked for directions to the police station, handed himself in, and was later granted  R10 000 bail." Mamothame said in his defence, Sekgoro claimed he acted in self-defence. He said Dangor had a firearm and threatened to shoot him. Sekgoro said another person in the dealership shot at him during this ordeal. “This submission was however dismissed by the state through video footage that was accepted by the court as evidence.” He said Judge AJ Makoti agreed with the state as no signs of danger were reflected on the footage against the accused. "An expert was also called in to testify on the authenticity of the footage. The state prosecutor, advocate Riekie Krause, further argued that Sekgoro’s action was pre-meditated, to which they agreed." Farouk Dangor said they hoped the accused would receive a life sentence. "We are happy with the conviction and we believe we are a step closer to getting justice. Since the incident, my daughter-in-law and my three grandchildren have relocated to Cape Town. "The case has gone on for over two years with a number of postponements. The accused tried to lie by saying my son threatened him with a gun but that was never the case as seen in video footage. People like the accused should not be on our streets." Sekgoro’s sentencing is set for April 11 and 12. The Post