DURBAN – The Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment (DFFE) Minister Barbara Creecy has revealed that a total of 451 rhinos were poached in South Africa last year. Creecy said 327 rhinos were poached within government reserves and 124 were poached on private property. She said while there was a 24% decrease in rhino poaching compared to the pre-Covid period in 2019, there has been an increase in poaching on private property. “In 2021, 209 rhino were poached for their horns in South African National Parks – all in the Kruger National Park (KNP). This was in fact a decrease in comparison to 2020 when 247 rhinos were poached within the national parks. It is important to note that none of SANParks’s smaller rhino parks experienced any rhino losses from poaching in 2021; in comparison, two rhinos were poached in 2020,” Creecy said. She said the steady decline in rhino poaching in the Kruger National Park was related to an increase in the intensity of anti-poaching activities in the park. A close working relationship between the police’s endangered species unit and the SANParks environmental crimes inspectorate had resulted in more arrests and convictions. One of the unintended consequences is that poaching syndicates are looking to other areas for easy prey and are targeting private reserves in Limpopo and Mpumalanga. “Over the past year conservation and anti-poaching efforts have intensified countrywide as a joint effort is made by state-owned conservation areas, government and private landowners to reduce the poaching of rhino in South Africa. More targeted deployment of resources is being assisted by the roll out of a CSIR-developed situational awareness platform known as CMORE into the integrated wildlife zones. Through this single technology platform, all role players are able to collaborate, making use of real-time insights and analytical capability, linking, for example, camera traps and ranger patrols while integrating a range of other systems,” Creecy said. She said the information collected flows through the Environmental Enforcement Fusion Centre (EEFC) which continues to support the teams at a tactical level and strategic level. Their analysis capabilities have also improved, resulting in the increased identification of those involved in rhino poaching and trafficking and improved and expanded investigations by multidisciplinary teams. Creecy said SANParks, provincial nature reserves and private rhino owners are dehorning rhino to deter poachers, while SANParks is investigating the feasibility of additional actions such as anti-poaching initiatives focused on apprehending poachers and establishing additional founder populations outside the Kruger park. “The government continues to work closely with the private sector and non-governmental organisations through the Integrated Strategic Management of Rhinoceros approach and the draft National Integrated Strategy to Combat Wildlife Trafficking (NISCWT) to address rhino poaching,” Creecy said. “In 2021 there were 189 arrests in connection with poaching activities: 77 within the Kruger National Park and 109 outside the park. This compares with 156 people arrested countrywide in 2020. In the 38 verdicts handed down by the courts, 37 cases resulted in the conviction of 61 accused rhino poachers/traffickers.” Successful prosecutions in 2021: Examples of work taking place between South Africa and those countries implicated in wildlife crime: “South Africa remains committed to safeguarding the country’s rhino populations, and will continue to work tirelessly, alongside the private sector, committed NGOs as well as authorities in transit and destination countries, to combat wildlife crime,” Creecy said. The public can report suspicious activity around wildlife to the department’s environmental crime hotline: 0800 205 005, or the SAPS at 10111. Daily News