DURBAN - The Zululand District Municipality has given the KwaZulu-Natal provincial government seven days to settle a R6.6 million debt for water, which it said is owed by the Zulu royal palaces and some government departments. In a statement issued by the mayor, Thulasizwe Buthelezi on Sunday, he blames Premier Sihle Zikalala, saying municipalities have been put under enormous pressure to provide services, and while ordinary citizens pay for their water and electricity, the provincial government continues to display an arrogant culture of non-payment for the services they receive.  The mayor urged the premier to lead by example and ensure that the provincial government departments listed below pay the municipality the amount of R6.6m for the following outstanding water accounts or face cut-off. According to the statement, the Office of the Premier is liable for KwaKhangelamankengane Palace’s R1 082 452.87 and Nyokeni Palace’s R353 529.23 water bills.  King Misuzulu lives in KwaKhangelamankengane Palace while Nyokeni Palace is occupied by the late king Zwelithini’s fifth wife, Queen Nompumelelo Mchiza.  The statement also listed the Department of Health, saying its 28 facilities owed R1 890 963.79 in total. Social Development in the Babanango offices owed R 95 944.39, while the Department of Transport’s seven facilities owed R176 227.23. The biggest culprit was the Department of Education, which the mayor said owed R3 027 667.40. “We request that the Office of the Premier ensures that these accounts are settled in full within the next seven days, failing which the municipality will be forced to cut water supply to the affected palaces and government departments without further warning,” it said. The mayor further said statements have been sent to the individual departments and are available in the office of the chief financial officer. Two weeks ago, the mayor and the premier had a bitter public spat after the mayor threatened to cut off the water supply to Kwakhangelamankengane Palace. The premier’s spokesperson Lennox Mabaso said he would respond later about this issue and others pertaining to the provincial government. Daily News