DURBAN - A suspect linked to the murder of Inkosi Hlanganani Biyela, 54, was shot dead during a shootout with police on Monday. Biyela was gunned down on November 13 last year at 9.15pm. He had arrived home at Dlangubo in Eshowe, northern KwaZulu-Natal. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said while Biyela was opening the door to his rondavel, he was accosted by four armed men who shot at him. “He sustained gunshot wounds to the body and was declared dead at the scene. It was suspected that one of the suspects was wounded because a trail of blood was seen from the crime scene towards the bush,” Gwala said. “The deceased’s firearm was also found cocked open.” Gwala said police officers from the K9 Unit were also summoned to the scene to search for the suspects but they were not found. A case of murder was opened at Eshowe SAPS. The docket was transferred to the Provincial Organised Crime Unit for investigation. “On Thursday, January 27, the investigation led the team of detectives to arrest two suspects, aged 27 and 28. The suspects appeared in the Eshowe Magistrate’s Court. The matter was adjourned to February 7,” Gwala said. On Monday at 12.30pm, a team of detectives from various stations proceeded to Matshana in Ngwelezane to search for more suspects. The information led police to a church where the suspects were hiding. “Upon arrival at the said place, police were met by a hail of bullets. A gun battle ensued and the suspect believed to be in his thirties was fatally wounded.  “A shotgun suspected to have been used in the killing of the Inkosi was found next to the dead suspect. “Two other suspects, aged 25 and 30, who were also at the same church were found in possession of two pistols with 16 rounds of ammunition in each firearm,” Gwala said. She said the suspects were expected to appear in the Ngwelezane Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday on charges of the unlawful possession of firearms and ammunition. Last month, Department of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs MEC Sipho Hlomuka revealed that Biyela had pleaded with the government to fast-track intervention in the killings of Amakhosi in the province. “The late Inkosi, Hlanganani Biyela, pleaded with the government to intervene urgently and for it to take the hearings to every district in the province for the purpose of engaging every traditional leader.” Biyela had served as the chairperson of the King Cetshwayo Local House of Traditional Leaders. Daily News