DURBAN - The Magagula family from Chatsworth has urged the public to assist them in finding their father, who went missing last week. Luckyboy Magagula, 63, was last seen by his family on February 21, when he left to check on building progress being made at his other home in the neighbourhood which is about 2km away from his family home. Magagula worked in the administration office at Shikani Trading, a construction company in Pinetown. He is married to Nokwazi, 58, and they have four children. His son, Lindokuhle who lives in Johannesburg, said he was informed a day after his father went missing. “My father is renting out rooms. He had just started building more at our other home. My mother said he left at about 6pm with a boy from the area to check on the builders and never returned,” said Lindokuhle. He said according to the boy, who came back home alone, his father had made or received a phone call on their way back home and decided to go meet the person. “The builders attested to meeting with him. They said he left soon after he saw the progress they had made. “The boy said my dad dropped him off and drove off to meet someone. We eventually found that he was meeting one of the neighbours who usually helps us. He showed us his phone logs and we saw he spoke to our dad. He agreed but also said they parted ways soon after,” he said. Lindokuhle said his father’s disappearance was taking a toll on the family, especially their mother. “It is stressful that no one knows where he went. I cannot even work properly. I also think about what could possibly happen to him. Was he slaughtered, killed, and buried? He has never gone missing or anywhere without someone else knowing. Something must have happened to him because if he had gotten sick he would have been found already. I feel weak but we have to be strong for our mother. She was the one who last saw him, the one who went to report him to the police and looked for him at the morgue. “I can hear from her voice that she is not okay. How can I give her hope while I am also hopeless? We have no clue where to find him – no one has even spotted his car. We have put out the word in the community and on social media, but nothing is forthcoming,” said Lindokuhle. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said a missing person report was opened at Cato Manor police station. Daily News