DURBAN - Three people were arrested for the theft of 35 bags of fertiliser stolen from Department of Agriculture offices in Umbumbulu, south of Durban. ET Rapid Response managing director Tony Lokker said various units including the Umkomaas SAPS Task Team, Umzinto SAPS K9, ET Rapid Response, Amanzimtoti CCPO and Magma Security were involved in the arrest. Lokker said on Tuesday, the Umkomaas SAPS Task Team had received information on a white truck transporting fertiliser suspected to have been stolen. He said the truck was intercepted in Umkomaas. “Upon searching the driver of the truck a 9mm pistol with ammunition was found in his possession,” Lokker said. “Upon checking the truck thirty five bags of fertiliser were found. “The firearm was established as stolen for a 2003 case, and it was also established that the fertiliser was taken from the Department of Agriculture offices at Umbumbulu,” Lokker said. He said three suspects were arrested and charged accordingly. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said on Tuesday at 8.45pm, Umkomaas SAPS stopped a truck on the N2 after receiving information that there was a vehicle transporting stolen fertiliser. “A 57-year-old man was arrested after he was found in possession of a stolen 9mm pistol with seven rounds of ammunition,” Gwala said. “Two other men (29 and 38), who are foreign nationals suspected to be in the country illegally, were also arrested.” Gwala confirmed that in the truck, police found 35 bags of fertiliser suspected to have been stolen from Umbumbulu. “The suspects are facing charges for being in possession of suspected stolen property, unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition as well as for being in the country illegally,” she said. The suspects appeared in court on February 2, 2022. Meanwhile, on Wednesday, the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Agriculture and Rural Development issued a statement informing about an official they had suspended for transporting people to a political campaign. It was also alleged that the official stole fertiliser, seeds and farming implements – earmarked to support the community – for political campaigning. The incident coincided with the local government by-elections taking place in KZN on Wednesday. Daily News