DURBAN - Isipingo Beach residents are up in arms after being without water for more than four days after a shutdown of the South Coast Aqueduct, which supplies south coast areas, left reservoirs empty. Residents said the complaint was escalated at all levels with numerous references but they were never given an explanation as to what caused the interruption in the supply between Tuesday and Saturday afternoon. Water was distributed to homes by private individuals from the area, and residents of neighbouring areas.  A resident who wished to remain anonymous said the rates and water bills were exorbitantly high in the suburb, and was concerned that the money was not being put to good use.  eThekwini Municipality ward 90 councillor Shad Nowbuth said a vast area was affected, including parts of Amanzimtoti. He said the supply was due to be restored on Wednesday, but this did not happen and there was no explanation.  Nowbuth said the city should be transparent and notify residents prior to a shutdown so they could prepare themselves. “The problem was exacerbated by the shortage of water tankers to service such a vast and complex area. Tankers also need to be directed to the various road networks. It was a huge inconvenience to residents who had to go to work, attend school, the vast business district, and hospitals in the area,” Nowbuth said. On Wednesday, the City said it had completed repairs on a line feeding Woodland’s reservoir. It said building capacity at the Woodlands 3 and 4 and downstream reservoirs had started and most areas would experience water shortages until the system had recovered.  Some of the areas that also experienced water supply problems were Ezimbokodweni, Athlone Park, Amanzimtoti, lower Illovo, Karidene Beach, Craigieburn, Umkhomazi and Umbumbulu. eThekwini Municipality’s spokesperson, Msawakhe Mayisela, said there was a major shutdown on the South Coast Aqueduct supplying south coast areas, including Isipingo.  “Most reservoirs went empty during this major work, but supply has been restored in most areas. Unfortunately, Isipingo Beach Reservoir had not recovered and investigations were under way to determine the cause.” To comment on this story send a WhatsApp message to our BackChat column on 071 485 7995 Daily News