DURBAN - Due to the crowded nature of informal settlements, several families can be affected by just one fire, shack dwellers’ movement Abahlali Basemjondolo says.  President of Abahlali Basemjondolo, Sbu Zikode was commenting after an estimated 30 people lost their homes in Foreman Road informal settlement in Clare Estate at the weekend when a fire broke out in one of the shacks. There were no reports of fatalities but one person was injured. Zikode, said if people were given land on which to build there would be a decrease in the number of shacks that burn down when disaster strikes. He said shack fires spread quickly because they are built next to each other in tight spaces. “As long as shack dwellers do not have enough water and very little land to build on, then we will see more of such situations, because if there is more land (that we are always advocating for as Abahlali), that will enable people to build comfortably and not in spaces that are confined.  Access to land does not automatically translate to a demand for housing, rather it will give people enough space to build in between, so that if it does happen that a fire breaks out, the next person will be saved from falling victim as well,” Zikode said. He warned shack dwellers to exercise extreme caution when lighting fires or using gas stoves. “People should be very careful when dealing with things that could cause fires. Cooking with gas stoves requires you to constantly keep watch of the stove, so do just that. Also, do not leave children unsupervised, and do not leave candles burning unattended,” Zikode said. “People are advised to be very careful as these fires affect more than one person. Many families' lives are disrupted,” he added. Speaking about Saturday’s fire, ward 25 councillor Themba Mkhize said he had visited the area. “The affected families have been registered to receive food vouchers, and certain organisations have also made donations of clothing items and other edible goods,” he said.  Mkhize also emphasised the importance of fire safety. “Fires are common in my ward. Having all your  belongings go up in flames is like experiencing a slow, painful death. I would like to encourage all those who are affected to please maintain their composure. We will also see how we can assist,” he said. Resident Bongani Mgiqika said he lost all his possessions in the fire. “The thought of having to start all over again is absolutely draining. Fortunately for me my identity document was with me at the time of the incident so at least that will allow me to speed up the recovery process,” he said. The cause of the fire is not yet known. THE MERCURY