DURBAN - A report by the 2030 Reading Panel released on Tuesday found that final year Bachelor of Education (B.Ed) students scored 54% on a primary school mathematics test. The inaugural 2030 Reading Panel is chaired by former South African deputy president Dr Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka and consists of 18 panellists. While the focus of the panel is to ensure that all children read for meaning by age 10 by 2030, the report said in primary school, teachers are required to be able to teach both languages and mathematics. In the Foundation Phase, it is the same teacher who teaches all subjects, it said. The report found that more recent research looking at initial teacher education for mathematics is especially concerning. In 2018, Lynn Bowie, Hamsa Venkat and Mike Askew tested a sample of 488 B.Ed students and 282 final year B.Ed students from three universities. According to the report, the test was aimed to assess primary school mathematics knowledge and included 43 questions drawn from the Grade 1-7 curriculum. The research study, which was published in 2019, found that most B.Ed students lacked a proper understanding of even primary school mathematics, and there was not much growth in mathematics knowledge over the four years of the B.Ed programme. “The average score for first-year B.Ed’s was only 52% despite it being a primary school mathematics test and, even more worrying, the average score for final-year B.Ed students on the same test was virtually the same, 54%, after four years of full-time study,” it said. The panel called for an audit of university programmes training primary school teachers. Other findings of the report include: The four recommendations from the background report were: Mlambo-Ngcuka called on each panellist and each of the 100 delegates to take responsibility for finding a solution to the different areas that have been identified for improvement. “Although schooling is primarily the responsibility of government, we all have a role to play here. Business, civil society, we all need to come together to tackle this issue,” she said. THE MERCURY