DURBAN – As International Mother Language Day draws closer on February 21, the South African Post Office’s (Sapo) partnership with non-profit organisation Nal'ibali has made it possible for children, reading clubs, schools and libraries to collect their free reading material from 508 post offices. Nal’ibali acting managing director Katie Huston said a year ago the reading supplements were only available at 46 post offices and the increase was made possible by the partnership Nal’ibali had with Sapo. “By the end of last year, Nal’ibali was able to deliver 309 000 reading supplements every month through post offices. Each copy has three stories – so that’s nearly a million stories every month. We reached 2 279 reading clubs and about 216 000 kids,” Huston said. “We could do this by using the branch network of the Post Office; everybody knows that there is a Post Office in almost every village.” Nal’ibali enabled young children to read in their mother language by producing illustrated interactive reading supplements in nine of the 11 official languages. They will be available in Tshivenda from March. Nal’ibali produced interactive, fun reading material that children assemble themselves, and Sapo made the reading material available for collection at its branches at no cost. According to research done by Nal’ibali, the supplements support children, parents and teachers to develop reading habits and people enjoy reading and using them. Parents and teachers report that it helps children develop their reading skills, and it allows parents and children to spend quality time together. Research also showed that learning to read in one's mother tongue early in school makes education more engaging, meaningful and enjoyable for children. Children who benefit from mother-tongue instruction and learning also perform better in their second language. Language is a major factor that binds members of a community and a culture together.  Teachers, pupils, caregivers or librarians and anyone interested in joining the Nal’ibali should email info@nalibali.org and include the name and postcode of their local post office, the name of their reading club, school or library and the cellphone number of the school or reading club that can be put on the address label. According to the UN, languages play a vital role in development, in ensuring cultural diversity and in intercultural dialogue. “It is also vital in strengthening co-operation and attaining quality education for all, in building inclusive knowledge societies and preserving cultural heritage, and in mobilising political will for applying the benefits of science and technology to sustainable development.” Meanwhile, KwaZulu-Natal Arts, Culture, Sport and Recreation MEC Hlengiwe Mavimbela has condemned the burning of a library in Ezakheni, in the Alfred Duma Local Municipality, northern KZN, on February 1. Mavimbela said the library fire came at a time when the Department of Arts and Culture was commemorating the 13th annual World Read Aloud Day. Daily News