LIFESTYLE - AFTER a two-year hiatus the live stand-up comedy show, Bruinos @ The Bat will return to Durban this week. Prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, the show, presented by Laughing Stock Comedy, was known for bringing a mix of established and emerging stand-up comedians to perform at The Bat Centre at Wilson’s Wharf regularly throughout the year. One of the show’s producers, Richelieu Beaunoir, a stand-up comedian and actor, said after the past two years of not doing any live shows due to the pandemic they have decided to get back onto the scene as the timing seemed to be right at the moment. “The last Bruinos @ The Bat was in March 2020, a week before the country went into level 5 lockdown, so we’re excited to be back on stage to deliver a show that’s been a long time coming. “We, as a brand, have made the conscious choice to discontinue shows until now, with the safety of fans being our key concern. The fact that people are now coming out and are more willing to be in social spaces has driven the decision to revive the Bat Centre shows. We are confident we can get the event back to its former pre-Covid glory.”  Their first show has some of the brand's favourites – the likes of Beaunoir (who will host), Arnotte Payne, Kelvin Stoffels and Andrew Hughes.  A mix of comeback kids and some fresh faces have also been added to the line-up. “Annie Botha is new not only to the show but to comedy in general. She’s been performing comedy for the last year and has managed to weave her way into the hearts of comedy fans around Durban. She brings comedy that is real, funny and unique. We’re excited to have Annie included in this show. “Thami Dlamini. has grown over the years into his style and brand of humour. He fits in well on the line-up as he has not only performed at previous shows, but has also ensured that he was in the audience when he was not on the line-up. It’s going to be interesting to see him apply the skills he’s developed from these experiences.”  Beaunoir said that as much as the show was called Bruino’s at Bat  it was not specifically for any demographic as comedy was universal and enjoyed by all. “The name of the show was born because the event was initially conceptualised in the year 2000, organised and executed by coloured people. The line-ups over the years have included all sorts of acts from all across the country and every demographic. “We have evolved over the years to now. We are not only bringing comedy, but also a space for other entertainment avenues like poetry, rap, dance or any other sorts of entertainment that fits the show’s profile,” said Beaunoir. *Bruinos at the Bat stages on February 25 and 26 at the Bat Centre. Tickets are available at the door for R120 or pre-book on Quicket.co.za for R100. For any information on the show, call Neil 061 475 2193 or Sean 084 568 7324. POST