DURBAN - Fearing crime and becoming a victim of crime has sadly become a way of life in South Africa for many people, says Umbilo community policing forum (CPF) chairperson Heather Roos. She said those fortunate enough not to have been a victim of crime themselves, or have loved ones lucky enough not to have been targeted by crime, may not understand how being a victim of crime changes your whole life. “We know our police structures are not enough, are not well equipped to keep us all safe 24/7, and although many police members try their hardest and do their utmost best, it is not always enough for many out there. This is why we have started to rely more heavily on the protection of our security companies to keep us safe, and thankfully many have stepped up and are doing an excellent job,” Roos said. She said so too had residents' expectations of CPF members become more demanding. The role of members of a CPF had become a lot more dangerous, with many CPF members from all over the country becoming victims of crime or being killed. So it was not a position that should be taken lightly by residents. However, a CPF and all its members are bound by a strict constitution and code of conduct, and cannot deviate from these as a CPF is a legislated body.  So your CPF has to rely on working with a police station that is active and that will embrace their CPF work and work with them, Roos said. Sadly, this did not always happen at many stations, as some police officers still held the view that CPF members were just there to watch them and report to them, with some officers even viewing CPF members as “an enemy”.  Luckily, though there were many officers who understood the role of CPFs and worked well with their CPF when they were on duty, Roos said.  She said the biggest downfall in communities (including our own) was the sad fact that crime was viewed as only something that men must fight and be predominantly involved in curtailing. Yet statistics showed that many victims are women, “and as women, to become a victim is more traumatising at the time as your thoughts turn to that you may not just become a victim of theft or hijacking etc, but also become a victim of rape; this has been confirmed to me by many female victims, that this is a thought that flashes through their minds at the time”. “Sadly there is not always going to be a man around to protect a woman, and as a woman, you have to become empowered to at least know what to do in order to survive; so yes we need more women getting involved, and coming forward and getting involved in CPFs, in community watches, in patrols, in street committees etc. “There are many single women headed households; these women have to be empowered to know what to do to survive. Who better a teacher than another woman, who knows exactly the fears and vulnerabilities we women go through and knows what needs to be done to survive,” Roos said. “Sadly, especially in this community, the biggest critics, nasty posts, bullying, scandal and putting down women that are trying hard to do just this, is mostly coming from women themselves. Some women don't even know a woman well enough, but they will spread nasty rumours, they will make other women's lives hell rather than support them. They will rather empower a man than another woman that is actually fighting for all women, who actually has to fight harder just because they are a woman.” Roos said it was sad as when a woman is faced with that fear, it will be another woman that will understand, it will be another woman fighting to make their community safer for all women, children and even men, as they too have families they are fighting to protect. Meanwhile, Roos said on Friday there was a clean-up of parks in the area. Daily News