DURBAN - UPL South Africa (Pty) LTD says data shows that its extensive clean-up and rehabilitation operations are showing success in many areas. The clean-up and rehabilitation follows a chemical spill after an arson attack at UPL’s leased Cornubia warehouse last July during the violence and looting. The spokesperson for UPL, South Africa, Japhet Ncube, said the specialist team UPL appointed had been working with the Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment (DFFE) and had provided an extensive information on the progress of the clean-up, remediation, rehabilitation and monitoring efforts. Ncube said UPL was pleased that the data presented to the department showed that its extensive clean-up and rehabilitation operations were showing success.  “New information based on the results of monitoring efforts by the independent experts shows improvements in terms of possible issues that would be of concern at present versus when the incident happened. These positive outcomes are notable for the beaches and sea water, the estuary, Ohlanga River, the warehouse platform and the pollution control dam. Another positive aspect to note is the rapid fall in the concentration of detected pesticides.” Ncube said independent experts had been monitoring for possible  public health risks associated with the spill. An analysis, from November 2021, showed there were no reports of acute or chronic public health issues from surrounding communities.  “Experts are also awaiting the outcomes of a broader health risk assessment and monitoring in terms of human health will continue. These monitoring efforts and associated results have also helped UPL pinpoint areas that need continued remediation work as well as to determine the most appropriate courses of action in this regard.” Ncube said UPL had spent more than R300 million to mitigate the impact of the chemical spill.  “These efforts have included the appointment of numerous leading independent experts and specialists as well as two spill response teams. During the first two-and-a-half months following the attack, there were approximately 130 people working at the spill site 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.  “The teams have removed significant volumes of contaminated sediment and water in the Ohlanga tributary and its banks. The operation has also included reworking the tributary channel in some areas and the formation of sinuous channel sections to accelerate the natural breakdown of any remaining residual products.” Ncube said soil samples were taken on February 2, with the aim of assessing the best way forward in terms of re-vegetation.  “Trials are being established to assess the best plants to use in the initial vegetation rehabilitation and the independent experts are aiming to set up a nursery on site, which will allow for the propagation of plants indigenous to the area.” Ncube said sampling from nearby sugar cane fields has shown that all detected pesticide levels were below the applicable maximum residue levels – mindful of the fact that of the detected pesticides, some were used as part of the normal agricultural process.  “Further sampling will be undertaken before the 2022 crop harvesting begins.The public can be assured that these broader assessment processes, undertaken by UPL’s team of independent experts, which includes the monitoring of any potential human health impacts,will remain ongoing as will water and sediment sampling and monitoring continue over the coming months.” THE MERCURY