DURBAN - THE ANC in KwaZulu-Natal has welcomed the swift arrest of a suspect following an act of vandalism at the ruling party’s provincial headquarters in Durban on Sunday. ANC KZN spokesperson Nhlakanipho Ntombela said a man threw a brick at the front door of the provincial office building, causing considerable damage. He added that the party was  disturbed by the incident.  “This is not just any ordinary building, but a revolutionary house of the African National Congress. So, an attack on it by any individual must be viewed as an attack on our glorious movement and all the noble ideals that it represents. It is simply unacceptable, and constitutes an affront against democracy and the social transformation that we envision, which will lead to a fair, just and peaceful society that we can all be proud of inhabiting,” said Ntombela. He said they were pleased by the swift reaction from the ruling party’s security. “We are pleased that the alleged perpetrator was swiftly apprehended and handed over to law enforcement authorities. Therefore, at this juncture, we do not want to speculate on the suspected motive for this attack and would like to allow the law to take its course”, Ntombela continued. The vandalism incident came just hours after the ANC reported the hacking of its Facebook page ANC KwaZulu-Natal. It was suspected that the hackers had  gained access to the page's security settings and removed all admin personnel who are members of the ANC's Department of Information and Publicity. "Our political opponents are clearly threatened by the popularity of the page, which had become the ANC KZN's trusted voice and authority on information. The ANC has been a target of a plethora of attacks over time, and, in hindsight, it was a matter of time before our enemies and enemies of progressive forces resorted to this kind of sabotage," said Ntombela. The ruling party appealed to the public to be circumspect when engaging with the page in its current form and not to interact with it or accede to any pleas that the hijackers of the page might make. According to the ANC, since its inception, the page has grown in popularity and reached just under 80 000 followers. THE MERCURY