DURBAN – A group of runners rescued a southern African python that was stuck in an electric fence on a farm in Holla Trails, Umhlali, north of Durban. Natasha Barnes posted on Facebook that she thought they made a difference on Saturday during their long run, saying they had a little adventure on the side. “I don't think any one of us #funkysocks runners could run past this poor creature and not stop to assist. My only wish was that he or she had not been stuck in the fence all night …” “The fence was active – just ask Penny Fourie who insisted on touching it to see how the snake felt while an electric pulse (travelled) through its tiny body?” Barnes said fortunately they had the number of the resident snake whisperer, who suggested they cut the wire and leave the snake to rest for a while, and hopefully, it would move off by itself. Others in the group were giving directions to the security company (or at least shouting at them) to turn the fence off and find the farm manager. “Not long afterwards an angel called Sobela appeared out of nowhere on his four-wheeler, followed by Adian the estate operations manager, and before we knew it, the electric fence was off, the fence cut and the snake free,” Barnes said. “Adian left the snake to rest awhile and regain its strength and then he collected him in an old duvet cover and took him deep into the bush and released him safely.” Barnes said they still had 14 minutes to run. She thanked Claudene Baker, Shamin Abba, Colleen Willis, Syliva and Penny Fourie. Durban snake catcher Nick Evans said it was a heart-warming story that deserved to be shared. Evans said he had received a call from the group of runners who sounded distressed. “I wasn't happy to hear about this either as I’ve seen two pythons die in an electric fence,” Evans said. “In saying that, I know of two that survived after being freed, and this group was determined to save this one!” “We all agreed, first things first, the fence needed to be turned off. They made phone calls to do this. The python was apparently getting weaker.” Evans said the southern African python was a protected species. It was illegal for it to be traded or killed. “Sadly, we lose so many of these species to people who kill them to sell for muti. Habitat destruction is another issue, among others.” “So for this beautiful, big specimen to be saved was so important. Hopefully, it lives a good life and has learnt to avoid electric fences!” Daily News