Durban: Jeanine Pillay wanted a better life for her family, but she was killed during a robbery in Welbedacht, Chatsworth, on Saturday morning. Pillay, 29, a creditors clerk, from Unit 9 in Chatsworth, sustained a gunshot wound to the chest. She died at the scene. Ronald Govender, her cousin, said Pillay was employed in the automotive repair and maintenance industry. “The company was having their weekend stock take because their financial year-end was drawing near. They arranged for some employees to be picked up from their homes. The company’s driver picked Jeanine up just after 4am.” He said they were travelling in a bakkie with a canopy. Govender said Pillay was seated in the passenger seat. “They drove to Welbedacht to fetch two other workers, a woman and a man. They fetched the woman first and she sat between Jeanine and the driver. They then drove to another area in Welbedacht to fetch the man. As the man got into the back of the bakkie, a single shot was fired at the windscreen.” He said while the man in the back of the bakkie tried to jump out, the driver removed his foot from the brake. This resulted in the bakkie rolling backwards. “The driver was hysterical. The bakkie rolled over the man as he was trying to run off and it then came to a standstill. When the vehicle stopped, three robbers appeared. They pulled the driver and the woman out of the vehicle. They were both assaulted and robbed of their cellphones and jewellery.” The robbers then fled. Govender said residents from the area called the police and ambulance services for help. “The driver and the woman were in shock. When the driver checked on Jeanine, he saw that she was shot and had died. Their colleague who was knocked (over) was badly injured.” An employee at the business notified Pillay’s family about the incident. “Jeanine, who was the sole breadwinner, was loved and cherished. Her parents and younger brother were her priority. She wanted to give them a better life.” He added: “This was such a senseless killing. This was not even a route that they used every day. If they wanted to rob them, why use such brutality and kill Jeanine?” A manager, who declined to be named, said Pillay had worked for the company for 11 years. “Jeanine was an integral and valuable part of our business. She was dedicated and committed to her job. We are like a family and we are feeling the void of her loss. We have offered counselling to the staff members who need it.” He said Pillay’s co-workers who were with her during the incident were recovering. “This is a difficult and sensitive time for them. They are on leave and we are giving them the space they need to deal with all that has happened. Serious and violent crimes in that area are out of control. We recently had the mother and two children who were killed. More needs to be done to tackle crime in our country.” The Quarter 3 statistics for the financial year 2021/22 showed that KwaZulu-Natal had recorded 1 682 murders and 6 188 robberies with aggravating circumstances. Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala, a provincial police spokesperson, said a case of murder, attempted murder and robbery was being investigated by the Chatsworth police. The Post