With Valentine’s Day around the corner Audette Vengetas shares recipes for a romantic dinner at home with the POST: *Prawn Cocktails Preparation Time: 15 minutes Servings: 2 Ingredients 12 cleaned and deveined prawns 200g mayonnaise 50g tomato sauce 1 tsp Worcestershire sauce 1 tsp lemon juice, plus lemon wedges, to serve A large pinch of paprika 1 ripe avocado, sliced 2 little gem lettuces, shredded A large pinch of cayenne to finish Method Bring a large pan of water to the boil with prawns. Cook for around 3 to 4 minutes, until pink and cooked through. Drain the prawns once cooked and spread out on a plate to cool. Meanwhile, mix together the mayonnaise, tomato sauce, Worcestershire sauce, lemon juice and paprika in a bowl. Taste and season with salt and pepper. Once the prawns are cool to the touch, mix with the sauce. Line 2 cocktail glasses with avocado slices around the sides and divide the shredded lettuce between them. Top with the prawn cocktail mixture and sprinkle with a little cayenne pepper. Serve immediately.  *Cold pasta salad Preparation Time: 15 minutes Makes: 2 servings Ingredients 2 cups spired pasta (cooked) 2 smoked chicken fillets 1 small avocado ½ cup cherry tomatoes ½ cup diced cucumber 2 tbsp mayonnaise 1 tbsp peri peri sauce (optional) fresh thyme salt and pepper Method Cook pasta, strain and allow to cool. Slice chicken fillets into bite sized pieces. Slice and dice avocado, tomatoes, cucumber and add them into a large bowl. Add mayonnaise, thyme, salt and pepper and stir. Pour into the mixture, the chicken and cooked pasta.  *Cheese crackers Preparation Time: 15 minutes Makes: 6 servings Ingredients 180g flour 125g butter 90g grated Parmesan Method Mix flour and butter until combined well. Add cheese and mix well. Shape into a ball, cling wrap and refrigerate for 1 hour. Preheat the oven at 180 C Remove cling wrap. Place a sheet of baking paper on your work surface and roll out the pastry into 3mm. Place pastry on a baking tray. Score the pastry into triangles and bale for 15 minutes or until golden brown. *Follow Audette on Instagram POST