DURBAN –The DA in KwaZulu-Natal said recent oversight inspections to SAPS facilities revealed that KZN SAPS were “on the brink of collapse”. DA KZN legislature chief whip Zwakele Mncwango said the oversight inspections were conducted as part of the legislature’s programme and they “lifted the lid on the crumbling state” and the virtual collapse of police stations in the province. “During the two-day visits, it was established that some SAPS stations in KZN do not have any vehicles or officers to respond to crime. Other stations visited were found to be completely uninhabitable, with massive infrastructure challenges,” Mncwango said. He said the DA was concerned by the findings which showed that conditions for SAPS in KZN were a disgrace. It was the organisation that was tasked with the job of protecting citizens, yet it was neglected to such an extent that that it was almost completely ineffective. “This begs the question – how does the government expect these men and women to do their jobs properly when they do not even have the necessary tools of trade? If anything, the July 2021 riots should serve as a reminder to this ANC-led government of what can happen when law enforcement is not prioritised,” Mncwango said. He said there can be no hope of reducing crime when that was what SAPS had become and while criminals have more resources than officers themselves. “The outcome of this is that our communities will continue to be burdened by high crime rates and that they will continue to take matters into their own hands to protect their own,” Mncwango said. “Alarmingly, most of the issues identified during the oversights are not new. They are the same ones that are seen every year during these visits. This is a strong indication that key departments responsible for maintenance of government facilities are fast asleep on the job. This is a clear failure to deliver on their mandate.” Mncwango said the week’s visits had also confirmed what the DA had been warning the ANC-run government for years and which had fallen on deaf ears. He called on KZN’s Community Safety and Liaison MEC Peggy Nkonyeni to fight for the rights of our men and women in blue. “If she and the province’s political leadership are serious about the safety of KZN’s people, then they must ensure that funds are provided to restore dignity to our law enforcement members,” Mncwango said. Some of the issues identified by the DA: INFRASTRUCTURE CAPACITY VEHICLES Daily News