DURBAN - MALVERN Primary School pupils and educators were met with a flooded school on Monday after copper pipes were stolen. The school was forced to close its doors due to the damage and having no running water. School governing body treasurer Karishma Mudhai said that there was extensive damage, and the school had to rely on sponsorships for makeshift repairs to be effected so that the school could restore its water supply. Mudhai said that the school was broken into over the weekend. “Whoever broke into the school gained access through the ceiling. They entered the change rooms and stole all the copper pipes. They vandalised the geyser and the toilets and took taps and other pipes. They also removed fire hydrants and broke the doors.” Mudhai added that the burglars seemed to know about the security in place at the school. “They broke into an office and stole a computer. They knew that this office did not have an alarm. Even our tuckshop, which has an alarm, was not broken into.” Mudhai said that this is not the first time that the school has been targeted. “In December, during the school holidays, two aluminium sliding doors and wires were stolen. However, the damage was minimal compared to this time.” She added that a garage, where tools were kept, was also broken into and all the tools were taken.  Mudhai added that the school did not have a lot of funds and needed all the help that it could get. “We are appealing to anybody that can assist us as we simply don’t have the funds to complete all the repairs. We have reported the matter to the Department of Education and police.” Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele confirmed the incident. “Police received a complaint of a burglary at a school and proceeded to the scene. “On arrival, the police were informed by the complainant that on Friday the school was locked and everything was in order. “Upon returning to the school on Monday, they discovered that it was broken into and computers, computer equipment and copper pipes were stolen.” Mbele added that Chatsworth police were investigating a burglary case. KwaZulu-Natal Department of Education spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said that they were aware of the situation and addressing it with the utmost urgency. “We’ve asked our local district to get as much information as possible on the damage and report back to us as soon as possible. So … that we can address the situation in the school.” Mudhai confirmed that the school would open today. “We can’t allow our learners to miss out on any more class time.” THE MERCURY