DURBAN - Tropical cyclone Batsirai no longer presented a potential threat to Madagascar on Monday morning. Météo Madagascar, an authoritative national institution on matters relating to weather, water, climate and related environments, made the announcement during its special cyclone bulletin and latest track forecast on Monday at 10am. Météo Madagascar said that at 9am local time, tropical cyclone Batsirai was positioned 183km west-south-west of Toliara I. The average wind was estimated at 65km/h with isolated gusts at 70 km/h, west-south-west at a speed of 7km/h. “It no longer presents a potential threat to the country,” Météo Madagascar said. “Some locally abundant rainfall accumulations are still to be expected in Menabe and the Great South.” Météo Madagascar said the alert level in Madagascar was modified as follows: Blue post-hazard vigilance: Morondava, Mahabo, Manja, Atsimo Andrefana Region, Anosy and Androy. Alert raised: Vatomandry, Mahanoro, Antanambao Manampotsy, Marolambo, Faritra Vatovavy, Fitovinany, Atsimo Atsinanana, Vakinankaratra, Amoron'i Mania, Matsiatra Ambony and Ihorombe. “Weather conditions along the south-west, south and south-east coasts will remain gloomy,” Météo Madagascar said. “Fishermen and boaters in these areas are asked not to go out to sea yet.” On Sunday afternoon, Météo Madagascar had said tropical cyclone Batsirai had continued to weaken. Its centre was positioned in the district of Sakaraha, near the south-west coast of Madagascar. It was expected to come out to sea in the Mozambique Channel in the early evening. Even then, apart from a few locally abundant rainfall accumulations, the tropical cyclone no longer presented any potential danger, Météo Madagascar said. On Friday, the UN said tropical cyclone Batsirai had the potential to derail relief efforts under way in the aftermath of tropical storm Ana that hit Madagascar, Mozambique and Malawi last month. Moreover, the impact of tropical cyclone Idai in 2019 remained fresh in the minds of vulnerable communities who were struggling to rebuild their lives. The UN said between eight to 12 tropical systems were expected during the current cyclone season which ran from October to May. Daily News