LIFESTYLE - REALITY TV fans get ready as the Real Housewives of Durban makes a return for season 2. Broadcast on the streaming platform Showmax, the show follows some of Durban’s rich and influential wives as they navigate their daily lives. The local adaptation of the popular US Real Housewives franchise, Real Housewives of Durban has been known to deliver entertainment and drama that keeps audiences tuned in and shakes the internet in every episode. POST attended the launch of the Real Housewives of Durban recently at the Oyster Box to recap on season 1 and to find out what season 2 had to offer. Making a return this season is Sorisha Naidoo, an actress, businesswoman and the wife to businessman Vivian Reddy.  Naidoo said she had an incredible time during the first season. “When I was asked to be a part of it, I wasn't sure because coming from acting and radio was easy - everything was scripted and I knew where to stand and where to move. Being asked to become a part of reality was different, but I thought how bad could this be. It has been quite a journey." Naidoo, 45, a mother of two, thanked the producers and the team of the show for making sure she was part of the production. She said in season 2, people could expect her to be a tad more open as she got used to her fellow housewives. “I feel I can be more myself and I don’t feel as closed off as I was in the first season. I am a little more relaxed and not such a pushover, which was really difficult in season one.” In season 1, viewers were introduced to Annie Mthembu, a choreographer and businesswoman; Nonkanyiso Conco, aka LaConco, a businesswoman and known as the fiancé of former president Jacob Zuma; Nonku Williams, a businesswoman; Ayanda Ncwane, late gospel singer Sfiso Ncwane’s wife; and Kgomotso Ndungane, a businesswoman. Following the tension that took place between some of the wives in season one, two of them withdrew from the show (Ncwane and Ndungane).  In season 2, three housewives joined the cast. They are Londie London, an Instagram influencer and singer; Jojo Robinson, a blogger and TikTok star; and Thobile Khumalo Mseleku, the third wife of KZN businessman Musa Mseleku. She is also a reality star on the Mzansi Magic show, Uthando Nesthembu. Naidoo said the news of three new housewives joining the cast of season 1 had made them nervous – because some of them had formed bonds with the first batch of women. “Our fears were: how are they going to mess up our group, what are they going to bring, what sort of drama will they have, and are they going to be nice and caring people? There were just a lot of things and we didn't know what to expect. After getting to know them, they are all pretty chilled ladies, who are open and honest and that’s what people are going to see on the show. It’s a lot to see though, so good luck.” Being a caring and nurturing person on and off the show, Naidoo said she usually got hundreds of text and social media messages from people asking for help for different reasons. “It's almost like I try to spread myself too thin because I want to assist each and every person who comes to me and sometimes it's to the detriment of myself.” Naidoo said as a person who was always the shoulder to cry on for the housewives, she also had that one person who she depended on to always listen. “Annie is my go-to. I always take problems to her and we just become really tight emotionally. I am getting closer and sharing other bonds with LaConco, which is great, so that’s developing but it’s Annie all the way.” She said viewers could expect to see more drama. “This season is filled with more drama, I am kind of scared for myself. It really is magical and we really are giving you our best this season because we’re being more real than we’ve ever been.” *The Real Housewives of Durban will broadcast on Showmax every Friday. POST