Durban – KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala has urged communities to work with the government to curb vehicle theft crime syndicates in the uMkhanyakude District in the northern part of the province. Zikalala visited police stations in uMkhanyakude District Municipality on Tuesday to assess their capacity. Zikalala, along with members of the provincial legislature, inspected the Jozini, Manguzi and Mbazwane police stations. The inspections included visits to the Child Protection, Sexual Offences and Family Violence facilities, where Zikalala expressed his concern regarding the capacity of some of the police stations and the state of the stations’ infrastructure which could hinder crime-fighting efforts. The premier also engaged with members of the public, including community crime-fighting structures.  Feedback was provided on the progress of initiatives by the provincial government to curb crime in the district. He addressed a number of issues including the problem of cross-border crime in uMkhanyakude District where vehicles are hijacked and taken into neighbouring countries.  “Our view is that the crime situation in uMkhanyakude District Municipality, especially organised cross-border crime, needs to change drastically and we must all put our hands on deck if we are to win the battle against crime. Cross-border crimes pose a serious threat to the country’s sovereignty and remains an apex priority for the provincial government of KwaZulu-Natal. Engagements with all government departments and state security agencies responsible for border management and control are continuing so that we can collectively reduce these crimes in our province,” said Zikalala. The premier called on stakeholders to co-operate as the efforts aimed at fighting crime were pivotal to improving trade and tourism to develop the local economy in uMkhanyakude District. “We are also addressing concerns that local police are supporting criminal networks and leaking information to enable vehicle theft. We will be closely following up on cases involving police if investigations find that police are linked to vehicle theft syndicates in uMkhanyakude District,” he said. THE MERCURY