DURBAN - The theft charges relating to R108 000 in exhibit money against a former police station commander have brought to the fore corruption in the force as well as the issue of salaries. Former Mandeni Police Station station commander Lieutenant-Colonel Mary Jane Ziningi Zulu was expected to appear in the Richard’s Bay Commercial Crimes Court for theft charges on Friday. However, on March 4, her attorney is expected to present the court with a death certificate, this after she allegedly drank poison and died. IFP KZN provincial spokesperson Blessed Gwala said low salaries were a possible contributor to police-related corruption, however, anyone found to be on the wrong side of the law must be held accountable. “This incident raises many questions. Are police officers being tempted to get involved in criminal activities to supplement their salaries? Are police officers of all ranks being paid decent salaries for the work they do? Police risk their lives chasing criminals on a daily basis. “Although the IFP is concerned about the possible repercussions of low salaries for police officers, it does not condone any form of theft or corruption. However, the IFP urges the government, in particular police management, to re-evaluate salaries being paid to police officers and to ensure they are being paid enough to cover their living expenses and to provide for their families.” He encouraged other police officers who found themselves discredited due to the actions of their colleagues who faced allegations of corruption not to follow suit. DA spokesperson on transport and community safety Sharon Hoosen said that bribery and corruption continued to exist within the SAPS because the government provided insufficient support to ensure that it operates in a professional manner. Hoosen said the police had not been able to strengthen their systems to avoid any further fraudulent activities. “When you work in an environment where there is a lack of proper oversight and management, you will see an increase in corruption because of the lack of accountability. Unfortunately, the officers that are there and follow the rules are left demotivated when consequence management takes years to be implemented on guilty individuals. “This leaves communities with less than a handful of dedicated officers trying to do the best they can while their colleagues are enjoying the fruits of corruption.” She said a complete overhaul was required in management to one that put the interests of the safety of its people first. “In order for that to be done, a no-nonsense approach to fraudulent activity must be implemented, with faster methods to follow disciplinary processes so that corrupt officials are in jail and not serving. Any form of fraud and corruption must follow an immediate suspension with unpaid leave until the matter is investigated.” Independent Police Investigative Directorate spokesperson Grace Langa said Zulu, who had been allegedly arrested before, faced two counts of theft and a case of non-compliance to the Ipid Act. EFF KZN chairperson Vusi Khoza said officials’ involvement in crime and corruption was worrisome and showed the brokenness of the country’s law. “We are shocked that this officer decided to take her life over facing her mistakes of theft. This will, however, send a warning to other officials that their wrongful actions will come to the light. It is disappointing that the same people who are supposed to be taking care and protecting the public are doing such. We are calling on Ipid to deal and conclude other police cases so that they get sentences that are deep lessons to them and others.” Daily News