DURBAN - A snake catcher from KwaZulu-Natal and another from the Western Cape have warned against leaving dogs in the presence of snakes. On Sunday, Durban snake catcher Nick Evans said it was a hectic weekend of pet and snake conflict. “The high temperatures and humidity have got the Mozambique spitting cobras moving. Unfortunately, they've been found by dogs, who learnt the hard way that these snakes can defend themselves well,” Evans said. He said they had a number of cases around Durban over the weekend. Most cobras escaped the dogs but were caught by Evans or a friend. “One did not survive its encounter with a Staffie. The only positive, no bites,” Evans said. Last week Gerrie Heyns from the Western Cape called for dog owners to put their dogs away when a snake catcher was called. He said there was a reason why snake catchers ask callers to put their dogs away – “not just because dogs attack snakes but in the process, the dog can get bitten, and for the safety of us snake catchers too,” Heyns said. “I have been attacked and bitten by dogs on call-outs after the owners said the dogs will do nothing numerous times.” Two weekends ago, after Heyns caught a little snake, the owner opened the door of their home and let the dogs out. “The dog came closer and suddenly it wanted to go for me. The owner’s husband had to restrain the dog by keeping the dog away from me while I had to get into my car as quickly as possible,” Heyns said. “I have been attacked on numerous calls and about a month ago a dog grabbed my ankle and threw me to the ground by the force it grabbed my foot.” Heyns said people must remember that in his cases, as soon as the handler has the snake on his hook or tongs then in the dog’s mind the handler becomes the danger and the dogs attack. “Also the scent of snakes is on our equipment, tubes and on us after we caught and handled a snake. “In the dog's mind then we are the danger and they get aggressive towards us. This is no joke but happens all the time even after I have told people to put their dogs away. Don’t let them out when the snake is captured and we are still on the premises please,” Heyns said. “When I say put your dogs away I mean put them in a room behind a closed door.” Heyns said he had told the guy to put the dog away and he disappeared behind the house with it. He then focused on the snake and the person came back taking some photos. The next moment the dog was back and on him while handling the Cape cobra. He did not put the dog away but just took it to the backyard and told it to stay there and then came rushing back to take photos. Daily News