DURBAN - An education lobby group has maintained that the education budget remains small, especially the allocation for infrastructure.  Equal Education (EE) said while the Treasury had given more money to schools than was expected for 2022, in 2023 and 2024,  funding for areas like school infrastructure grants would not keep up with inflation.  The organisation was commenting after Wednesday’s Budget speech.  “Money for school infrastructure has increased this year, by approximately R700 million. But in 2023 and 2024 there will again be decreases in school infrastructure funds. This R700m increase does not match the urgency needed to fix our country’s huge school infrastructure problems, especially as learners are back in classrooms full time during the Covid-19 pandemic,” said the EE’s Jay-Dee Cyster. She added that R470m over the next three years was needed just to fix storm-damaged KwaZulu-Natal schools.  “The school infrastructure backlogs grant, which gives money to the DBE (Department of Basic Education) to fix schools, is set to come to an end in 2023, but it won’t have met its targets by then,” Cyster lamented.  She noted that the department planned to build 30 schools by 2023.  The National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of SA (Naptosa) said the DBE was merely treading water because there were insufficient funds to meet demands. Naptosa warned that the set targets for infrastructure were not enough to meet the demand.  “The budget allocation will allow for the building of 30 schools over the medium term. This is catch-up, not progress. It does not start to address the curse of overcrowded classrooms that is the biggest undermining factor in providing quality education to our children,”  said Naptosa KZN CEO Thirona Moodley. She added that the infrastructure budget will also always be inadequate to sustain planned infrastructure maintenance because of the annual infrastructure regression due to vandalism and destruction of school property, exacerbated last year by the July unrest in KZN and Gauteng. Despite this, Naptosa welcomed the funding set aside for the provision of water to 50 schools and sanitation to 450 of schools. THE MERCURY