LIFESTYLE - Celebrity chef Videhi Sivurusan shares recipes for quick and easy oven bakes: *Hotpot butternut pies Preparation: 10 minutes Cooking time: +/- 50 minutes Serves: 4 Ingredients 30 ml olive oil ¼ tsp mustard seeds 1 sprig curry leaves, 10 to 15 leaves 1 small onion, finely chopped 1 cinnamon stick 2 cardamoms 2 cloves 1 tbs garlic and ginger paste 2-3 green chillies, chopped (optional) 1-2  tbs chilli powder ½ tbs coriander powder ½ tbs fennel/somph powder 1 tsp jeera powder 1 small butternut, peeled and cubed 2 courgetteS, thinly slice ½ cup peas 2 medium tomatoes, pureed 1 tsp plain white flour 125ml water 800g puff pastry for pot pies or 400g for pastry rolls 100ml full cream milk Handful chopped fresh coriander leaves Method Heat oil in a sauce pan. Add the mustard seeds and curry leaves, which should pop and splatter. Add the onion, cinnamon, cardamom and cloves. Once the onions are golden brown,  add the garlic and ginger paste and fry for 30 seconds. Add the chilli, coriander, fennel, and jeera powder. Sauté for a few seconds. Then quickly add the butternut, courgetteS and peas. Stir it, coating all the vegetable with aromatic spices. Cook until the vegetables are tender, about 8 to 10 minutes. Add some water if needed. Add tomatoes and cook for another 2 to 5 minutes. Mix water and flour together and pour into the curry. Cook until the gravy thickens.  The curry must cool down before packing it into the pastry Cut the pastry into squares and fill – bringing the 4 corners of the pastry together. Pinch tightly leaving a small gap in the middle for air to escape. Cut off the excess pastry - taking care it’s not too thick. Bake in a preheated oven for 20 to 35 minutes at 200C until golden brown. Oven temperatures vary - bake until fully cooked. Alternatively divide 400g of pastry into 4 pieces. Spoon in the filling, roll into logs and bake for 20 to 35 minutes.  *Meat-free moussaka (served with crostinis, béchamel and salad) 1 large brinjal 1 medium potato a glug of olive oil ¼ tsp mustard seeds ¼ tsp cumin seeds 1 cinnamon stick 2-3 bay leaves 1 medium onion finely chopped 2-3 green chillies 1 tbs or 15ml freshly ground garlic/ginger 1 tbs or 15ml coriander powder ½ tbs  (7ml) cumin powder 1-2 tbs (15-30ml) mix masala ½ cup (125ml) red pepper finely chopped ½ cup (125ml) yellow pepper finely chopped 2 cups soya mince or cooked brown lentils ½ cup (125ml) frozen peas ½ (200ml) can tomatoes 1 tsp (15ml) salt 40ml fresh coriander finely chopped (add more if you like) 40ml flat leave parsley finely chopped (add more if you like) Béchamel sauce 1 knob vegan margarine/butter 50ml white flour 400ml soy/almond milk (unsweetened) 80ml grated vegan Gouda/Cheddar cheese pinch of nutmeg pinch of freshly ground black pepper 3 tbs (45ml) nutritional yeast Method Cut the brinjal lengthwise, scoop out the flesh, chop it up and set aside. Lightly salt the brinjal shells. Peel, cube and boil the potato until tender. Roughly mash. Season with salt, pepper and a knob of butter. Keep aside.  Heat oil in a saucepan. Add the mustard seeds. Once it splatters, add cumin seeds, cinnamon stick, bay leaves, chillies and onions. Fry until the onions are translucent. Add garlic/ginger. Fry for a few seconds. Add the coriander powder, cumin powder and mix masala. Then add the chopped brinjal, peppers and salt. Cook for 5 to 8 minutes. Add the soya mince and peas. Cook for 5 minutes.  Add the tomatoes and cook on medium heat for 10 to 15 minutes. Then add the parsley and coriander leaves.  Preheat the oven to 180ºC. Wipe out the brinjal shells with a paper towel and lightly oil. Layer the mash potato and top with the filling. Bake for 30 to 40 minutes (adjust timing – ovens differ 15 to 20 minutes).  Béchamel: In a saucepan, melt the butter and stir in the flour. Cook for a few seconds. Add the milk, stirring constantly until thickened. Add cheese, nutmeg, black pepper, nutritional yeast and salt. Let this simmer for a few minutes until the cheese melts completely. Serve with crostinis, sauce and salad. Suggestions: You can either pour the white sauce on the brinjals and bake, or serve it on the side. *Follow Videhi on her blog and YouTube Channel. POST