DURBAN - Non-conforming automotive friction materials including brake pads, brake shoes, headlamps, globes, foam tyre cleaners and infant car seats worth R80 million were destroyed at the National Regulator for Compulsory Specifications (NRCS) in Midrand. The NRCS is an agency of the Department of Trade, Industry and Competition. In a statement today (Tuesday), the Retail Motor Industry Organisation (RMI) welcomed the recent destruction of non-conforming materials. Phambili Services co-ordinated the destruction processes, which included crushing with a machine, hammering, cutting, chemical processing, dumping into landfill sites and, where possible, recycling. The products were classified in four main categories: automotive, electronic, chemical and legal metrology. “Only 10% of the products were destroyed with the balance to be destroyed over a period of three weeks,” said the statement. Vishal Premlall, who is the national director of the SA  Petroleum Retailers’ Association and regulatory compliance manager at RMI, was a guest at the event. “We are pleased to see progress and for the first time in many years; a public display of non-conforming product destruction. “Now we need a database of the conforming products as a starting reference for the consumer because the continued trade in inferior products impacts the safety of road users,” he said. Premlall said the collaboration between the RMI and the Automotive Friction Material Industry to regulate brake friction materials has been ongoing over an extended period. He said the regulation of these materials had often yielded frustrating results for the parties involved. What is most concerning for Premlall is that there has been no means to confirm the quality and validity of these products in the local marketplace. “The illegal trade is evolving daily. Careful tracking is essential. Accordingly, the RMI will partner efforts with all relevant stakeholders to bring guilty perpetrators to account,” Premlall said. He said the RMI will conduct further discussions with the NRCS to ensure that products entering the automotive market are safe and of acceptable manufacturing standards. To further this agenda, the RMI will take discussions to heightened levels at the NRCS and ensure that products entering the automotive market are safe and of acceptable manufacturing standards. Premlall called on the industry to stand together to rid the industry of people who trade in illicit goods.    THE MERCURY