BOLLYWOOD superstar Lata Mangeshkar, fondly known as the Nightingale of India, died on Sunday morning at age 92. Mangeshkar's high-pitched melodies were a uniquely recognisable feature of Indian cinema, with her work appearing in more than 1 000 films. She died in a Mumbai hospital after being admitted to its intensive care unit several weeks ago with Covid-19 symptoms. According to a report by AFP, Mangeshkar was born in 1929 in Indore, central India, and started her musical training under the tutelage of her father Deenanath, singing in his theatrical productions when she was just five years old. Her dad’s death, when she was 13, forced her to take on the role of breadwinner for four younger siblings, and the family eventually moved to Mumbai in 1945. There she pursued a career as a playback singer, recording tracks to be mimed by actors, and her voice soon became a staple of Bollywood blockbusters. “Mangeshkar dominated Bollywood music for more than half a century and is considered by many to be the Indian film industry's greatest-ever playback singer. Mangeshkar was not shy about taking a stand when it came to raising her prices or asking for a share of the royalties earned on her songs. “Her longevity and discipline saw her lend her voice to teenage actresses who were 50 years her junior. Critics complained that her dominance left little room for newer singers to thrive, but her audience remained loyal, ensuring that her songs ruled the charts. She was also known for her quirks, such as never singing with her shoes on and always writing out each song by hand before recording it,” said the report. In 2001, Mangeshkar was awarded India's highest civilian honour, the Bharat Ratna, and she received France's Legion d'Honneur in 2009 in recognition of her contribution to Indian music and cinema. News of her death has made headlines globally and prompted an outpouring of grief on social media from prominent politicians, celebrities and fans worldwide.  * The New York Times: “Lata Mangeshkar, a beloved Indian singer who enthralled generations of Bollywood audiences as the singing voice behind many stars” - www.nytimes.com * ABC News.com: “Lata Mangeshkar, legendary Indian singer with a voice recognised by a billion people in South Asia, has died at 92”  - www. abcnews.go.com * Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi: "...She leaves a void in our nation that cannot be filled. The coming generations will remember her as a stalwart of Indian culture, whose melodious voice had an unparalleled ability to mesmerise people. Lata Didi's songs brought out a variety of emotions. She closely witnessed the transitions of the Indian film world for decades. Beyond films, she was always passionate about India's growth. She always wanted to see a strong and developed India." - Reuters * Amitabh Bachchan said on his official blog: “She has left us .The voice of a million centuries has left us .. her voice resounds now in the Heavens! Prayers for calm and peace."  - www.srbachchan.tumblr.com * AR Rahman: He posted a picture of him sitting at her feet and tweeted: "Love, respect and prayers." Later, he posted a video where he talked about the icon at length: "Somebody like Lataji is not just a singer, not just an icon. (She is) I think a part of the soul, a part of the consciousness of India, Hindustani music, Hindi poetry, Urdu poetry, Bengali, and so many other languages she sang in. And this void is going to remain forever for all of us." - IANS * Shreya Ghoshal: “Feeling numb. Devastated. Yesterday was Saraswati Puja & today, Ma took her blessed one with her. Somehow it feels that even the birds, trees & wind are silent today. Swar Kokila Bharat Ratna #LataMangeshkar ji your divine voice will echo till eternity. Rest in peace. Om Shanti.” (sic) - Twitter * Karisma Kapoor shared a throwback picture of the premiere of Raj Kapoor's Awara (1951) on her Instagram account with the caption: "So many legends together in one frame at the premiere of dadaji's 'Awara'. Rest in Glory Lata Ji. The Nightingale of India." The picture shows a young Lata Mangeshkar standing next to Raj Kapoor. Among the many reasons why Awararefuses to fade out from our memory, one definitely is the Nightingale's song, Ghar Aaya Mera Pardesi, featured in the famous dream sequence choreographed by the dance maestro Uday Shankar's partner, Simkie. - IANS * Malayalam star Mohanlal: "Deeply saddened to hear about the passing of the musical phenomenon, Bharat Ratna Lata Mangeshkar. May she live on through her music. Sending condolences to her loved ones. (sic)" - IANS * Fellow Malaylam star Mammootty: "India has lost our nightingale. Cinema and music will never be the same again. Lataji, your immense body of work and your iconic voice will be unparalleled forever. #LataMangeshkar". (sic) - IANS * President of the Maldives, Ibrahim Mohammed Solih: "Saddened to hear of #LataMangeshkar's passing. Her music crossed cultural and linguistic boundaries and continues to bring joy to millions around the world. India has lost a national treasure, and I offer my condolences to her loved ones and the people of India." - IANS *Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan: "With the death of Lata Mangeshkar the subcontinent has lost one of the truly great singers the world has known. Listening to her songs has given so much pleasure to so many people all over the world.” - Reuters POST