DURBAN - In the past few days, at least five dogs have fallen victim to snake attacks with one of the canines dying as a result of a snake bite, in the greater Durban area. The other dogs are recovering after their encounters with venomous snakes. Snake rescuer Nick Evans said on Sunday a dog was chasing a green mamba in an area north of Durban when she was bitten by the snake which escaped. He said while the dog was doing fine for a while with just some swelling around the bite site, she later took a turn for the worse. “She was rushed to Hillcrest Vet, when she crashed. She received 3 vials of antivenom, but hours later, she sadly passed away,” said Evans. In a separate incident on Sunday, two dogs attacked and killed a Mozambique spitting cobra, he said. “One dog was spat at, which is usually the case in such an event. Sadly, one dog was bitten,” said Evans. Evans advised that based on his experience, cobras biting dogs are quite rare, as the spitting usually gives the cobra a chance to escape. “The owner rushed the dog to Hillcrest Vet as well, it received two vials of antivenom, and it pulled through,” he said. Yesterday, Evans said a husky went after a Mozambique spitting cobra in Queensburgh, while another dog also went after a cobra in the Kharwastan in Chatsworth area. “Both got spat at. I am unsure of the Kharwastan dog's progress, but the husky is recovering well,” he said. Evans applauded the dog owners for taking quick action and offered his condolences to the owner of the dog which died. “Remember, if your dog is bitten by a venomous snake, rush it to a vet with antivenom. Phone ahead in advance. Right now, I know Hillcrest has a supply,” he advised. He said, if the dog is spat at, rinse the venom out with water, for as long as you can manage, adding that a check up with a vet is wise as it is a painful experience. He said ideally dogs should be trained to leave snakes alone but acknowledged that this was extremely difficult, as their instincts tensd to kick in. THE MERCURY