With Valentine’s Day around the corner Audette Vengetas shares recipes for a romantic dinner at home with the POST: *Chicken coconut curry, rice and sambals Preparation time: 5 minutes Cooking time: 25 minutes Makes: 4 - 6 servings Ingredients For the curry: 4 skinless chicken breast fillets 3 tbs coconut oil 300 ml chicken stock 1  x 400ml tin coconut cream 1/2 onion, finely chopped 2 tsp fresh ginger, finely grated 2 cloves garlic, peeled and finely chopped coriander, chopped, for serving salt to taste 2 tsp fresh lime, juiced 2 tsp paprika 3 tbs coriander, ground 2 tbs ground cumin 1 tbs curry powder Method To make the curry, heat a large pot over high heat. Cube the chicken breasts then sauté the chicken in coconut oil. When the chicken is golden brown, remove from the pot and set aside. Sauté the onion in the same pot until soft and fragrant. Add the garlic and spices and allow to fry for 30 seconds then add the chicken back to the pot. Pour in the coconut cream and chicken stock. Lower the heat and allow the curry to cook for 20 minutes until the chicken is cooked and the sauce has thickened slightly. Add the lime juice and season to taste. Serve with fresh coriander.  For the rice: 250 ml white or brown rice salt water Method Wash the rice 2 to 3 times to remove excess starch. Add to a medium pot with salt (to taste) and water Cook on high heat for 20 minutes or until cooked. Strain and allow to cool  For the sambals 2 medium tomatoes ½ onion chopped 2 chillies chopped coriander salt to taste 2 tbs white Vinegar Method Finely chop the tomato, onion, chilli and coriander. Add salt and vinegar and mix well. Leave to cool before serving.  *Smashburger Ingredients For the coleslaw: ¼ red cabbage, very finely shredded 1 large carrot, peeled and shredded 3 spring onions, thinly sliced 2 tbs mayonnaise Juice 1 lemon Salt and pepper  For the burgers: 500g beef mince 6 tbs mayonnaise 1 tbs hot sauce 2 tsp tomato sauce 150g cheddar, grated 4 gherkins, thinly sliced, to serve sea salt and freshly ground black pepper 4 seeded burger buns, toasted  *Make the coleslaw, mix everything together and set aside for the flavours to mingle. For the burgers: Meanwhile, season the meat well, divide  beef into 4 equal portions, and shape into balls. Place the mince patties on the preheated hot pan and, using a spatula, press down to make a shape a little larger than the buns. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes, flip and cook for another 3 minutes until cooked through. Do not move or flip the patties multiple times, as tempting as it is, this will affect the cooking process. Add cheese to each patty and cook for another minute until the cheese has melted.  Assembly: While the burgers are cooking add the mayonnaise, hot sauce and tomato sauce in a small bowl and stir until combined. When the cheese has melted add the sauce to the bottom half of the burger bun followed by the burger, some coleslaw and the bun lid. Serve with the fries. *Follow Audette on Instagram POST