Durban -  Exactly a year ago, the civil unrest of July 2021 began in KwaZulu-Natal, which later spread to parts of Gauteng, and eventually claimed more than 300 lives lost and businesses sustained damages over R120 billion. While the wanton looting happened and many businesses were burnt to the ground, some concerned people decided to take a stand against the deliberate acts of criminality. Nick Nzama, a former Kearsney College pupil, was one such individual who went to great lengths to protect businesses within his community. Born and bred in Botha’s Hill, which is set in the Valley of Thousands Hills area, Nzama said he had seen what had transpired in Phoenix and was prepared for racial tensions to ignite and divide his community. “My mother was a labourer on a chicken farm in Assagay. So when I got a bursary to study at Kearsney College I was overwhelmed by the gesture and that’s where the love seed for my community was planted,” he said. When the unrest erupted, Nzama swung into action and brought together the communities of KwaNyuswa and Embo, which included community Indunas and councillors, taxi association representatives, Botha’s Hill and Hillcrest business leaders, the SAPS and Metro police, together with the neighbourhood watch leaders. He co-ordinated a meeting of these and other representatives, which was held at Kearsney College. Nzama said while growing up, he was exposed to both communities, which made him understand the fears from both sides. “Seeing what had happened in Phoenix, the racial tension that had been building up and some people taking advantage of the situation, I realised that on both sides of my community, there were issues emerging that I didn’t like,” he explained. Nzama, who is also a member of Kearsney College’s Transformation and Diversity Committee, said his group reflected “the colours of the rainbow nation” and as a result of them working together, there was no looting or destruction in the area. Kearsney College Headmaster Elwyn van den Aardweg said the civil unrest had shown how Kearsney had become a centre to bring people together to protect the community, which was underpinned by old boy Nick’s efforts. SUNDAY TRIBUNE