Durban — The Umgeni Steam Railway is hosting its third Fundraising Open Day Festival, this time offering longer train rides from Inchanga Station to Botha’s Hill and back – and the craft and food market and lots of train-themed attractions on Sunday, July 31, 2022, at Inchanga Station. The track was devastated by the April floods and R2 million is needed to complete the refurbishment of the flood-damaged railway line. The thousands of supporters who attended the first two open days helped to raise sufficient funds to fix the line up to Botha’s Hill. On July 31, the train rides will be longer, around one hour and 15 minutes to Botha’s Hill and back. The trip meanders along the rolling hills of KZN through one of the oldest operating tunnels in South Africa, with the 1000 Hills in the distance. The train turns around at Botha’s Hill and returns to Inchanga. Marc Bouchier of Umgeni Steam Railway said: “We were so excited by the turn out at the first two open days, it was quite extraordinary!” “Such was the demand for tickets for the short rides, that we added additional carriages on the train to accommodate all the passengers.” Wesley, the refurbished vintage steam loco, will be doing three trips on Sunday: leaving Inchanga at 8.30am; 11am and 1.30pm. Tickets are R150 adults / R100 pensioners and children, and should be reserved and purchased in advance to avoid disappointment on the day. The Inchanga Craft Market will have dozens of stalls offering family-friendly locally-sourced fare: gift ideas; great coffee; bespoke wooden toys and décor; homemade delicacies; plants; books; honey; dolls clothes, toys and games; funky T-shirts; collectables; bath-time treats; knitted goods; arts and crafts; jewellery, accessories and clothing.  Shop to a great soundtrack, as there will be a DJ playing. The market will operate from 8am until 3pm. The Inchanga Railway Museum will be open for tours; as will the model railway, Thomas & Friends, be operational in the Modeller's hut. Tours will be offered through the shed to see the 110-year-old Steam locomotive, Maureen, under repairs as well as tour the vintage coaches. A tea garden will offer a range of light meals and snacks, a play area and a picnic site. “The public can’t wait to hop on the trains again. It is very exciting. We have had so many messages of support and encouragement, that we are eager to get back on track again,” added Bouchier. Information you need to know: Please consider making a donation towards the track refurbishment:  https://www.facebook.com/195092653987179/posts/2156826351147123/ Daily News