Durban — A sub-antarctic fur seal, 19 micro chipped post-hatchling loggerhead turtles and one sub adult loggerhead turtle were released back into the ocean after rehabilitation on Wednesday. The South African Association for Marine Biological Research (Saambr) released them approximately 20 nautical miles offshore with assistance from South African Institute for Aquatic Biodiversity, Makhanda, Eastern Cape (SAIAB). The seal, named Admiral Tweni, was found stranded near Winkelspruit Beach in May. The KZN Marine Stranding Network and KZN Ezemvelo Wildlife brought Tweni to the Saambr rehabilitation facility for medical observations and care. Animal Care Specialist at Saambr, Ana-Alicia Eyre said Tweni had one eye and was quite thin on arrival but recovered well and reached his release ready target weight thanks to the constant care by the animal care and health teams. “We are very happy with Tweni’s progress and wish him well on his adventures as he travels home. We will, however, miss his loud morning greetings and his endearing personality,” said Eyre. Sub-antarctic fur seals quite often make their way to the South African coastline for a brief visit, but their home range is in the Southern Ocean around the Prince George islands and around Marion Island, so Admiral Tweni has quite a swim ahead of him. Dr Greg Hofmeyer from Bayworld Museum Marine Mammals has facilitated many sub-antarctic releases and contributed valuable information and insights into this case as well. Saambr staff also released 19 microchipped post-hatchling loggerhead turtles along with Donny, a sub adult loggerhead turtle sporting a satellite tag. Donny's release was part of a collaborative release of three juvenile loggerhead turtles, all rescued between 2019 and 2020, but all presenting various health challenges. They were all recently cleared for release fitted with satellite tags and will be released at three different sites along the South African coastline so that their post-rehabilitation and release movements can be compared, said Saambr. Donny was named and adopted by Don Hunter, a local Durban underwater photographer who joined the release. Donny, who weighed a mere 44.3 kg when he was admitted, was rescued in March 2020 in the Eastern Cape and taken to Two Oceans Aquarium where she spent just over two years in rehab. She had developed metabolic bone disease due to her compromised immune system and struggled to eat and dive. She spent a long time in the turtle ICU and underwent a range of treatments, including UV light treatment. “Donny’s body demanded a lot from her to help her get better and she rose to the challenge. Our turtle rehab team can all breathe a sigh of relief knowing that she has championed her own rehabilitation journey,” said Talitha Noble, conservation manager at the Two Oceans Aquarium Education Foundation The Bateleurs, an organisation of volunteer pilots flying for the environment, transported Donny from Cape Town to Durban in preparation for her release. Malini Pather, lead aquarist and turtle rehabilitation specialist and her team at Saambr together with Santosh Bachoo from Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife fitted Donny with a satellite tag provided by the Two Oceans Aquarium Education Foundation. "We are expecting transmission for approximately 4 to 8 months which should give us a good indication of where these juveniles go during their ‘lost years," said Pather. Daily News