Durban — At least for five days areas supplied by the Durban Heights Water Treatment Plant will experience an interruption of water supply. In a joint statement, the eThekwini Municipality and Umgeni Water said the interruption was due to a leak on Aqueduct 3, which is a high-pressure pipe that conveys large volumes of water for treatment at the plant. Umgeni Water had advised the municipality of the interruption in all areas that are supplied by the Durban Heights Water Treatment Plant, which is operated and managed by the water utility. “To ensure that there is enough water and to prevent further water loss, Umgeni Water has taken a decision to shut down Aqueduct 3 on an emergency basis from Friday, July 8, 2022, to undertake these critical repairs,” read the statement. “As a result, there will be reduced water supply from reservoirs that are fed by the Durban Heights Water Treatment Works.” “It is estimated that repairs will take five days. The pipe is expected to receive water again from Tuesday July 12, 2022,” the statement continued. Areas that will experience poor supply of water during this process are Umlazi, Nsimbini, Folweni, Northdene, Firwood, Shallcross, Washington heights, Intake; Birch, Klaarwater and Chatsworth. “Residents are advised that this process will also affect the water rationing times in the current schedule. It could also result in lower-than-normal pressure for areas in the high zones. Residents in these regions are advised to visit social media platforms to view affected areas and revised times on water rationing schedule,” the statement read. “Water tankers will be dispatched to assist with water supply to affected areas.” The municipality apologised for the inconvenience caused and appealed to the residents to use water sparingly to ensure that all customers had access to some water. On Monday sister publication The Mercury reported that a leak in Aqueduct 3 had worsened in the vicinity of Annet Drive, Reservoir Hill, over the last three months. Umgeni Water said that the shutting down of the aqueduct was necessary to prevent a potentially hazardous situation. Daily News