DURBAN – The Inkosi Albert Luthuli International Convention Centre (Durban ICC) is hoping to clinch the crown as Africa’s Leading Meetings & Conference Destination in the World Travel Awards and has called for people to cast their votes in their favour. Nominations have opened for the 29th World Travel Awards which aims to reward and celebrate excellence across all key sectors of the travel, tourism and hospitality industries.  The WTA – which has been dubbed the “Oscars of the travel industry” – is recognised globally as the ultimate hallmark of industry excellence. The Durban ICC said voting has opened in the various categories for the Africa region.  Winners in the regions (Europe, Asia, Oceania, Middle East, South America, Central America, North America, Africa, Indian Ocean & Caribbean) will go head-to-head for the world awards. “Travel industry professionals, the media and consumers are invited to cast their votes for travel brands – such as Durban ICC – that they consider to be the very best in Africa. The nominee gaining the most votes in a category will be named as the winner. “Durban ICC has been nominated as Africa's Leading Meetings and Conference Destination 20 times and has been voted the winner in this category no fewer than 17 times. The state-of-the-art venue has also been nominated the World's Leading Meetings & Conference Destination for the past 10 years,” said the Durban ICC. Lindiwe Rakharebe, chief executive officer, Durban ICC, said the convention centre would be going all out to bring the trophy home, yet again. “The lockdowns forced the Durban ICC to mothball itself. When restrictions were eased, we worked diligently to reduce the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and maintain business continuity as far as was possible under the dire circumstances. “We have just completed two major back-to-back events which tested all our systems and the verdict is that the Durban ICC is ticking over like a well-oiled machine.” She said the Durban ICC had met all its performance targets and exceeded targets in many instances. “Competing and winning – be it for events or awards – is in the DNA of the Durban ICC. We are thrilled to have been nominated in the Africa round and hope to also vie for the global award. It will raise Durban’s destination profile for business tourism and will help the Durban ICC to attract more international events to the city. “This will create more jobs and generate positive economic impact for KwaZulu-Natal and South Africa. “Winning awards is a visible demonstration of all the behind-the-scenes hard work from the Durban ICC teams and people whose principal focus is to continuously provide world-class customer service to clients, both local and international. “It is for this reason that the close-knit team strives to maintain the Durban ICC strong inherent culture of warmth and hospitality that we are known for. It strives to ensure that each guest leaves the Durban ICC happy and satisfied with the service received,” said Rakharebe. To cast your vote for the Durban ICC go to: https://bit.ly/39bnkbS   THE MERCURY