Durban - Concerns have been raised about the conditions in the community halls and centres that are housing residents left homeless in the April floods. DA KwaZulu-Natal leader Francois Rodgers yesterday described the situation in some community halls in the eThekwini metro where flood victims are being housed as a humanitarian crisis. The DA in KZN visited nine community halls within the eThekwini Municipality over the past two days to conduct oversight inspections. It said it would approach the South African Human Rights Commission regarding the conditions in some of these halls. Rodgers was joined by DA KZN spokesperson on social development Mmabatho Tembe, DA KZN spokesperson on human settlements Marlaine Nair and other DA councillors. Rodgers said he wanted to see for himself what conditions the people were living under. “Clearly there is a big problem, initially there was an issue with suitable land to build the Temporary Residential Units (TRUs) on but we have learnt that suitable land has been allocated, yet people are still in halls,” he said. He said he would be writing to the MEC for human settlements, the national Treasury and the premier to outline concerns based on what the party observed. “We need a detailed plan of action. The one hall we visited had a woman who had given birth in it; in another hall we found that some people were sleeping in the toilet because there is not enough room in the hall.” The party visited Yellowwood Park Civic Hall, Palmiet L-Zone Clare Estate, Truro Hall in Westville, Sub 5 Community Hall in Kwadabeka, Greenwood Park Hall, La Mercy Hall, Waterloo Hall, Mountain View Community Hall and Phoenix. “I will be lodging a complaint with the Human Rights Commission and inviting them to come see these conditions for themselves. Unless you are there to see how the people are living you will not understand,” he added. When asked about whether TRUs are still the solution, he said if the province had to go the permanent route or build RDP houses, people might be in halls for two years. Ward 23 (which includes parts of Westville and Reservoir Hills) councillor Alicia Kissoon said currently there were two halls housing victims in Ward 23, the first housing approximately 60 people at Truro hall in Westville and another housing 20 people in Palmiet Road which is a informal church hall situated in the settlement. “Concerns by all have been raised in that the process is too slow and, in particular, geo-technical reports on the suitability of the land have to my knowledge not been carried out,” she said. Speaking to The Mercury, KZN Department of Human Settlements spokesperson Mbulelo Baloyi said that to date, 563 temporary housing units have been built in the province. “Thus far 563 completions with 200 in Ilembe, 86 in Harry Gwala District, 82 in eThekwini and 41 in King Cetshwayo District. This 563 is against 817 sites assessed that were found to be suitable for building.” Rodgers said he does not believe that everybody in the halls has been counted or is accounted for as the number of houses expected to still be built doesn’t match what he saw from the two-day visit. He added that most of the TRUs are being built outside of eThekwini which indicates that there is an issue of neglect. THE MERCURY