Durban – The Freedom Front Plus has stated that the recent spate of tavern massacres point to deep-rooted problems in the police service and criminal justice system. FF Plus leader Dr Pieter Groenewald said the series of shootings that occurred since Thursday in taverns in Pinetown, Pietermaritzburg, Katlehong and Orlando in Soweto points to deep-rooted problems in the police service and serious shortcomings in the criminal justice system. He said so far, 22 people have been killed in these incidents while another 22 have been seriously injured, with some in a critical condition. On Thursday, Redline Response paramedics were called out to a tavern in the Pinetown area shortly after 9pm for a mass shooting incident. Derrick Banks of Redline Response said one person was shot dead and two people were left seriously injured. “When paramedics arrived on scene, they found a male believed to be in his mid thirties lying on the floor. They accessed the patient and found he sustained a fatal gunshot wound and was declared deceased on scene,” Banks said. “Redline Response paramedics accessed two other patients, a female in her late twenties and a male in his early thirties had sustained gunshot wounds.” Banks said paramedics used intermediate life support intervention to help stabilise the two patients before being transported to hospital in a serious but stable condition for further medical care. He added that the circumstances around the incident is unclear but the local police were at the scene. Police spokesperson Constable Thenjiswa Ngcobo said Pinetown police were investigating charges of murder and attempted murder. “A 39-year-old man was at a bar situated on Breightmet Road in New Germany when two unknown males entered and fired several shots at him. He sustained gunshot wounds to the head and died at the scene,” Ngcobo said. “Two other patrons sustained injuries and were rushed to hospital for medical attention.” Ngcobo said the suspects fled the scene in their vehicle. “The shortcomings in South Africa’s criminal justice system are underlined by the shocking fact that a criminal has about an 80% chance of getting away with committing a crime,” Groenewald said. “Criminals no longer fear the police and they are not at all deterred by the inadequate punishments imposed on offenders, should they be brought before the court.” “The country's rising crime rate has been highlighting the shortcomings in the system for a long time,” Groenewald pointed out. He said that it seemed illegal firearms like AK47 assault rifles were used in the shootings. Private individuals may not be in possession of such firearms, and it proves that the police have lost control of combating illegal firearm possession in South Africa. “On the one hand, the government is trying to disarm law-abiding citizens, while criminals clearly have no problem getting their hands on illegal firearms and ammunition,” Groenewald said. “South Africa does have comprehensive legislation aimed at combating crime. The problem lies in the implementation thereof.” Groenewald added that the time has come to take action to protect ordinary citizens against crime. A good place to start would be to replace Police Minister Bheki Cele with a competent individual who is serious about ensuring the public’s safety. Meanwhile, the UDM expressed its concern about the new trend of tavern shootings in South Africa, where patrons, mostly the youth, were losing their lives. “It is being proved once again that South Africa is nothing but a banana republic, where laws or by-laws in place are not followed. The tavern owners are doing as they please and operate without adhering to stipulated hours of operation. These killings are usually taking place in the early hours. If there was police visibility in townships or around these taverns, ensuring that they close on time, these killings could be prevented,” said UDM secretary-general Bongani Msomi. “It is time the police start earnestly to do their work to protect the communities and that will need them to come up with a practical plan of how to combat these senseless killings. There is a need for a police service that is responsive. Currently, it seems the police continue to be clueless and they have not learnt anything from last year’s July riots,” Msomi said. Daily News