MULTI award-winning comedian Marc Lottering, will return to Durban this month. Lottering is the highlight in a line-up of acts being brought together by Laughing Stock Comedy at the Bat Centre. "I'm part of a comedy line-up and I will be doing some stand-up material from my show, Uncle Marc, for around 30 min,“ the comedian said. The show will be hosted by Kelvin Stoffels and features Richelieu B. Lottering, who has been performing stand-up comedy since late 1997, said keeping material fresh had helped him over the years. "You never stop with your nerves. Even now, I will be anxious about the Bat Centre show. Will it work? Will people take to it? Will they enjoy it? For a lot of people, it may be the first time they see you, so you want it to work really well. "It's always about presenting people with fresh material every year. For example this year, I'm walking onto the stage with my show, Uncle Marc, and that's going to be my material that I tour around with." He said South African audiences have very high expectations. "I've found that South Africans are spoiled. International comedians can tour the same material for around five years or so. But South Africans prefer to have new material yearly. And that's quite pressurising… And they want to be entertained... And they want you to be funny. So I try to remember that. "I always tell the younger comedians, you must keep writing. I am not the funniest comedian by a long shot but I think people appreciate the fact that you are coming up with new stories all the time. This is why I'm now doing Uncle Marc because I'm 54 years old and it's about being in that chapter of my life." What has helped sustain Lottering over the years has been hard work and balance at home. "What I've essentially been doing since 1998, is to take the money I get from one show and channel it into another show. So it's not been a business where you get super wealthy out of comedy. "During Covid-19, I went online as a lot of comics did and many people were still loyal to me which I really appreciated. We were basically asking people to watch stand-up comedy online. "Watching stand-up when you're alone at home, on your laptop, is a big ask because much of stand-up comedy is about the laughter around you. But people have been so loyal. I think I might have done about four or five shows and all of them did extremely well so I'm grateful for that. " A key part of Lottering's success has been his partnership with producer/director, and husband of 12 years, Anwar McKay. "Anwar and I have been married for 12 years, but we have been together for 23 years. Anwar not only produces the shows, but he also directs most of my stand-up comedy shows. This means I have to get notes from Anwar every night of my life, after every performance. I hate that but he is really good at that,“ he joked. "But we have to draw the line. I sometimes have to tell him: 'okay, we are now going to have dinner, we are now at home, the show is done, no more talk about the show until tomorrow'. "So you have to set boundaries because it can become intense. Anwar knows what the audience wants so I trust him with my art. I trust him with my life. But it is important that we do set boundaries." Catch Lottering at The Bat Centre on July 29 and 30. Tickets are R150 each via webtickets.co.za  POST