Durban - Umgeni Water said that over the past 24 hours, it started progressively increasing raw water through Aqueduct 3 after the successful completion of the commissioning process.  This follows the completion of the repair of a significant leak on this pipe, which transports water from Nagle Dam to the Durban Heights Water Treatment Works, which was completed on Sunday afternoon – ahead of schedule. Umgeni Water said that the leak was in the vicinity of Annet Drive in Reservoir Hills, Durban. “ Following completion of repairs, thorough inspections and monitoring were done on Monday, 11 July 2022, and the following day. No other leaks were detected.” Umgeni water added that by the afternoon of Tuesday, 12 July 2022, the amount of water released into Aqueduct 3 was close to its capacity of 180 million litres. “ Releases will be steadily increased as part of plans to continue to reduce the raw water deficit at the Durban Heights Water Treatment Works. The deficit was caused by forced decommissioning of aqueducts 1 and 2 – two of the four Nagle Dam-Durban Heights Water Treatment Works aqueducts - because of severe damage to them in the April 2022 floods.” Umgeni Water said that  repairs are currently being undertaken on the two flood-damaged aqueducts: one is expected to be ready for commissioning by the end of December 2022 and the other by the end of June 2023. “The raw water deficit has resulted in a situation in which reduced volumes of potable (drinking) water are being supplied to eThekwini Metro from the Durban Heights Water Treatment Works. Umgeni Water is working hard at reducing the shortfall in raw water.” Umgeni water said that to assist in this process, three of four emergency shaft pumps are being used to transfer water from Inanda Dam to the Durban Heights Water Treatment Works. “Collectively, they supply 150 megalitres of raw water per day. The fourth shaft pump is being used five days in a week, as a mitigation against risk of failure. It supplies, on average, 50 megalitres per day.” Umgeni Water added that with Aqueduct 3 back online, Aqueduct 4 remaining operational and the emergency shaft pumps transferring water, the total amount of water currently reaching the Durban Heights Water Treatment Works for treatment amounts, on average, has improved to 560 megalitres per day.  “The remaining work associated with Aqueduct 3, including earthworks and rehabilitation of the road surface, will be completed in accordance with the schedule provided by the contractor.” THE MERCURY