It could cost more than R100  million to restore the Howick Falls tourist site to its former glory. Umngeni Municipality mayor Chris Pappas recently revealed that to fix the dilapidated state of some of the facilities in and around the site, as well as make new improvements, the projects could cost in the region of R109m. Currently, it is the uMgungundlovu District Municipality that is tasked with the responsibility of reviving the site. Umngeni Municipality has expressed concerns that this process is not moving fast enough on the part of the district, and warned that it may take over the rehabilitation and invite private partners to partner with it on the restoration work. There are several phases to restore the site that was once one of the premier tourist destinations in the Midlands and attracted many individuals and small business people trading in arts and crafts. Today, the area is a shadow of its former self. At a council meeting last month, Pappas spoke of the need to restore the site. This week Pappas spoke of the phases that are to be undertaken, some of which include minor aesthetic work and the refurbishment of toilets. “The idea is to expand the development and to make improvements. The designs indicate about R109m for all the plans,” he said. “The site is a historical, natural and spiritual wonder. It has the potential to create jobs while celebrating the rich value of the attraction.” In the council meeting last month, the council resolved that its political leadership should engage business to lobby for private sector contributions. It had tabled a report detailing the funds needed to rebuild the site. “The Howick Falls is one of the municipality’s major catalyst projects that has the potential to boost tourism and stimulate the local economy,” said the report tabled before the council. “Over the years, the precinct infrastructure and appearance has deteriorated, resulting in significant loss in the number of tourists who visit the site. “This has also affected local business around the precinct, evident in the number of businesses that have closed their doors, particularly around the Howick Falls,” it said. It said that before, the precinct had businesses that ranged from accommodation facilities, merchandising, arts and crafts. It said that while there had been plans to develop the site in the past, none of those plans materialised because there was a lack of funding. To raise the funding required, “it was suggested that alternative funding avenues through partnerships be explored”. “There are two primary partnerships that have been identified, donations from the private sector to cover the infrastructure cost, or commercialisation of opportunities in the area.” It said these two models invited the community and businesses to contribute in a meaningful way. “The collaboration will provide several benefits to the project, including a sense of shared ownership.” THE MERCURY