Durban - KwaZulu-Natal Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane said seeking medical help is not a sign of being “too soft” and urged men to seek medical assistance for early detection of diseases to prevent premature and unnecessary death. The MEC was speaking on her department’s weekly KZN Health Chat.Gov multimedia programme on Friday, as the province continues to observe Men’s Month throughout July. This comes after Simelane announced during her budget speech in May that the department is forging ahead with plans to make its facilities more “men-friendly”. The department said the initial target in the first phase of the project is to ensure that at least 80 health-care facilities have a male nurse, who are dedicated to men’s unique health needs,  during the day and after hours. Simelane said when the department engaged with men, especially older men, they say that they cannot go to their local clinic because of a neighbour's daughter, or wife, being a nurse at the facility. This makes it difficult for them to tell nurses what they are suffering from, she said. “This is why a person who might be having the symptoms of prostate cancer may end up saying he’s suffering from a headache.” Simelane said during these engagements, the men indicated that if there were more male nurses, then they would be able to speak out freely. She also said men need to put their pride aside if medical help is needed. The MEC cautioned men against the dangers of relying on their wives and girlfriends’ medical results as an indicator that they are safe from diseases. She said it is important for each individual to get tested and know where they stand with regards to their health. “The department will allocate male nurses to clinics, community health centres and hospitals, so that a person with a sexually transmitted infection or symptoms of prostate cancer doesn’t suddenly say they’re suffering from a headache, just because they’re being attended to by a young female nurse,” she said. The MEC said the allocation of male nurses will make it easier for men to speak more openly about the diseases that plague them. She said men are one of the population groups that need to be focused on because their attitude towards their own health, and towards the health-care system was concerning. “For us, finding men proved to be such a challenge that government had to establish a programme dedicated to finding men and bringing them to health-care facilities. Generally, men only come forward when they’re too sick. “It is such a problem in our society, that we’ve even come to accept that, in any family, the man is the one who must die first. When married couples reach 80 or 90 years of age, it is regarded as an anomaly, which shouldn’t be the case. It is not natural that men must die early. It is precisely because when men are sick, they do not come to our clinic… to the doctor, or to the hospital. “When a man has an eye problem… Firstly, he will not speak up. Not because he’s not in pain, but he does not want to go to a nurse and explain, and thinks that’s a waste of time. Men, unlike women, persevere until it’s too late. And by the time they present at a health-care facility, their ailment has been prolonged and it is too late for them to get help.” Simelane said some men believe that going to hospital is an indictment on their masculinity. “They think it’s a sign that they’re not ‘real’ men, because real men are not supposed to feel pain. They look at ‘what society will say.’ “We want men to realise that we take them seriously, and to know that there’s nothing wrong with being a man who goes to hospital when you’re sick. It doesn’t mean you’re ‘too soft’ too, you're not a kleva." The MEC encouraged all men not only to come forward and visit health-care facilities in July but all year round. THE MERCURY