Durban — The KwaZulu-Natal Liquor Authority (KZNLA) has condemned any acts of violence and killings within licensed liquor outlets in particular following the deadly shooting at Samukelisiwe Tavern and Restaurant in Sweetwaters, Pietermaritzburg on Saturday night. Four patrons were shot dead and eight others were left seriously injured after two gunmen entered the establishment and opened fire. On Sunday, KZNLA acting chief executive Bheki Mbanjwa and the compliance and enforcement team visited the outlet and found the premises in possession of a valid liquor licence. KZNLA chairperson Mbali Myeni said a further internal investigation will be embarked upon which will seek to determine if there were any breaches of the liquor licence conditions by the owner of the outlet (licence holder). Today, KZNLA Acting CEO Bheki Mbanjwa together with his Compliance and Enforcement team visited Samukelisiwe Tavern and Restaurant in Sweetwaters PMB. This after 5 patrons were shot dead and 7 others injured. pic.twitter.com/UbYbrQrQS3 “Licence applicants are required in terms of the Liquor Licensing Act to submit a  detailed security plan with a written representation in terms of the measures to be taken by them to provide security for both inside the proposed premise, as well as within a radius of five metres outside of the proposed premises. Upon the granting of the application, licence holders are further required to ensure that firearms are not permitted within their premises as part of their licence conditions,” Myeni said. “Should the Liquor Authority find that there was not any compliance and/or any  breach of licence conditions, the necessary steps will be taken against the licence holder which may lead to the licence being suspended/or cancelled.” Myeni urged communities to report any suspicious and non-compliant liquor outlets on 031 302 0600 or email info@kznlqa.co.za.  Members of the public are further encouraged to report any fraud, corruption, wrong-doing through our Ethics hotline 0800 004424. Daily News