Durban — Parents, community members and ActionSA are demanding justice for three teenagers who were knocked down by a Fidelity ADT Armed Response employee. One teenager died and the other two were critically injured when the employee lost control of his speeding company vehicle and ran over them as they were walking on the pavement in Phoenix, north of Durban. Video footage showed a speeding bakkie losing control and riding over Ethan Govender, 18, Kerin Rampersad, 19, and his sibling Trishen Rampersad, 16. Ethan died on the scene while the Rampersad brothers were rushed to the local hospital. The parents and their lawyers, accompanied by a small group of community members and Action SA, on Monday marched to the Phoenix police station and requested the police to hold ADT accountable. They held placards calling for justice for the children and urged the police to leave no stone unturned. Ethan’s father Prevan Govender said he wanted justice for his dead child and ADT should account for the death of his son. “Ethan was my only child and he was taken away from me by a reckless driver who was speeding on a road where pedestrians walk freely on the pavement. “It is extremely hard for me and my family to understand that he is no longer here and we will never see him again. I could not believe it when I saw him lying helplessly with no sign of life,” said Govender. He said the community had long asked that the municipality build speed humps so vehicles would be forced not to speed because this was a busy road used by pedestrians. Tusher Rampersad, the father of the injured teenagers, said he would leave no stone unturned in ensuring justice for his children and for Ethan. “My two children visited Ethan. As they were returning home, an ADT Van that was speeding lost control and ran over them on the pavement. One of my sons landed on the road while the other one flew up in the air and landed on the grass. One of them (Kerin) was discharged and the other (Trishen) is on life support fighting for his life in hospital. “I am disturbed by this and the video footage is extremely painful to watch because the driver who ran over the boys is still out there living his life. We are not fighting anyone but we want justice; my son is fighting for his life and his friend was killed. My wife is taking this very badly, we cannot have this matter wrapped under the carpet,” said Rampersad. ActionSA councillor in eThekwini, Busi Radebe said her party would write to mayor Mxolisi Kaunda seeking answers as to why the municipality failed to build speed humps two years after a request was made by the community members. “Action SA will ensure that people are held accountable. We will be writing to the mayor today (Monday) and asking him why after the request was made two years ago, the municipality had not put those speed humps. “It is clear that if one is poor in this country then justice is not for them. It cannot be that children that were walking by the roadside on the pavement are killed and no noise is being made. “It is wrong.” Fidelity ADT CEO Wahl Bartmann said they were investigating the matter and co-operating with the SAPS in its investigation of the incident. “We wish the injured a speedy recovery and send our deepest condolences to the family and loved ones of the pedestrian who passed away,” Bartmann said. Daily News