Durban - The SANDF and the US army took part in a joint exercise called Exercise Shared Accord in Richards Bay, which started earlier this month to improve military relations following a five-year break due largely to the Covid-19 pandemic.  Exercise Shared Accord is a joint and multi-national peace support operation and humanitarian relief exercise, where military medics from both countries are deployed to visit different areas, offering medical services to local residents, especially in rural areas.  The Sunday Tribune spoke to some of the US military personnel to find out about their time spent in the province. Public affairs officer, Master Sergeant Dave Thompson, 52, with the Southern European Task Force (Africa), said the exercise was not a new thing. “It is a bilateral exercise where we, as an army, integrate with our counterparts here in South Africa and train as a military. “Under the Shared Accord umbrella, we have various exercises; the medical readiness exercise, and exercises where our military police come and do training with the military police counterparts here. We also have what’s called a ‘field training exercise’ where our infantry comes and trains with the infantry here (of the SANDF),” said Thompson. He said the programme included veterinarians and dental services.  “It’s a collaborative effort in that we train as allies to hone our skills, to improve our relations, and if we are ever called on to react to a crisis in security issues in the region, we’ll work together easily because we’ve already established those relationships. “We can therefore work seamlessly when we’re called upon to either support a civil crisis or any sort of military type operation.” Thompson said  South Africa was a valued partner in the US and the SANDF led the training done in the country. Apart from the training, Thompson, a veteran in the military with 25 years’ experience, said he enjoyed being in the province. He appreciated the weather as well as the fare from fast food chain Nando’s.  “The temperature has been great because where I am based in Italy, it’s extremely hot right now. “We’re actually having one of the hottest summers in recent history, so it’s been great being here where there’s relatively cooler weather,” said Thompson. He is of mixed heritage and enjoys other cultures. “My father is Jamaican and my mother is British, so a lot of what I’ve experienced for food is similar to what I’ve tasted in other parts of the world. “What I enjoyed first here was the braised oxtail. It was unbelievable. It was just as good as the best I’ve ever had,” said Thompson. Nando’s was also a hit for Thompson and he said he was there almost every other day. “I’ve also had chicken feet before, absolutely loved it. “Some of my SANDF counterparts have given me great experiences, I even forgot some of the names of the traditional foods I’ve had,” he quipped. Being in the military for 25 years granted him some of the greatest experiences he’s ever had. “I would have never seen a fraction of the places I’m going to if it wasn’t for the army. “I’ve been all over the world; Latin America, the Caribbean, all over Europe, been in combat in both Afghanistan and Iraq and touches of Syria and Bosnia.  “I’ve had a rich experience and it’s been my faith in God that has kept me and why I am here today talking to you; because obviously there’ve been a lot of situations but by the grace of God, I’m still here, so he’s got a bigger plan for me,” said Thompson.  Private 1st Class, Mariajose Licea, 28, a Combat Camera Specialist with the 55th Signal Company (the US Army’s only active duty Comcam unit, which provides still and video documentation of army operations during peacetime, contingencies, and combat) said her experience in South Africa country has been fulfilling. Licea said when she first arrived, it was cold, something she did not expect. The first meal she had and was intrigued by was an oxtail dish. “I was so amazed by the way they brought it out in a little pot (potjie) and I had never seen that before. “I thought it was so cute,” said Licea. She added that the warmth of the people was heart-warming. “People are happy and excited and wanted to take pictures with us. “I will go back and tell my kids of this beautiful country and that it’s not like what we see in movies and on TV. “I would actually love to come back and bring my kids with me,” said Licea. Major Dwayne Bodie, 42, with the New York Army National Guard, works in the dentistry service and said he was looking forward to returning.  The weather and food were also a hit for him, having sampled pork chops, a braai with pap and a bunny chow. “I had been looking forward to coming here because I knew there’s a lot of meat involved and I’m a carnivore,” joked Bodie. He said being in South Africa was a learning opportunity. “The most I’ve gained so far is that we use the same dentistry instruments but we call them by different names. “I wouldn’t have known that had I not come to South Africa.  “Just knowing that alone, should we have to work together again, will help us to integrate seamlessly,” said Bodie.  He said working with the SANDF has been “wonderful” experience. “I definitely have to come back to South Africa. We’ve only seen this part of South Africa (KZN). I’d love to go to Cape Town. “I’ve also always wanted to go to Joburg, Soweto specifically. I just always heard about it, so it’s something that I’d like to see. “Also I was supposed to go to the Kruger National Park years ago but that fell through, so I’ll probably come back and do all those things,” Bodie said.  The Exercise Shared Accord closing ceremony will take place on Wednesday at Richards Bay High School.  The programme will include capability demonstrations including High Altitude Low Opening (Halo) techniques by paratroopers, US and SA Medivac, chemical spillage containment procedures by the SANDF and disaster management demonstrations by the SAPS and traffic officers. SUNDAY TRIBUNE