Durban — Fans said they cannot wait for a Netflix documentary series to be aired about the life and career of England soccer legend David Beckham. Beckham, on his Facebook page, said he was excited to be partnering with Netflix on a documentary series about his life and career. The midfielder said the series would feature unseen archives, untold stories and interviews with people who have been part of his journey. He also mentioned that the series would be directed and produced by Academy Award winners Fisher Stevens and John Battsek. Netflix also confirmed the good news in a tweet. The streaming service said Beckham will be the subject of a new multi-part docu-series. Netflix said Beckham and his family would sit for interviews to fully tell the story of how he became one of the most recognisable athletes of all time. David Beckham will be the subject of a new multi-part docuseries.Beckham and his family will sit for interviews — as well as share personal footage from their lives — to fully tell the story of how he became one of the most recognizable athletes of all time. pic.twitter.com/NZmnMDAndH Beckham has played for the England national soccer team and a number of clubs, including Manchester United, Real Madrid, AC Milan and Paris Saint-Germain. The footballer has also been involved in a lot of charity work and became a Unicef Goodwill Ambassador in 2005. Reacting to the news, Ahmed Ismael said as Beckham had an amazing career, he deserved the documentary. “All your fans will wait for it impatiently, good luck Dave the hero of my teenage.” Natalie Louise Spillings said: “I literally cannot wait for this! Since the age of 13, you have been my favourite & I was shall I say quite obsessed! I have seen you 3 times in person but (have) not yet had the pleasure of meeting you, that is my number 1 dream! You are a true gentleman.” Jerald Aidoo said: “Looking forward to watching that. You are just 5 years older than me so pretty much watched your whole career blossom. Aside from football you are a great family man & do a lot of charitable work. Got a lot of respect for you David.” Peter Haddock said: “David you are a legend and one of the best we have had at Manchester United. Never any fuss or getting on like a prima donna. You played for the team you loved. We will always be grateful for the way you played and your attitude. You’re a United legend.” Lee Spencer said: “I can’t wait, I'm not a huge football fan, but you are so inspiring for me. I’ve watched you play from the beginning when I can and you really are an amazing ambassador to the sport, a truly committed husband and an amazing father.” Daily News