Durban - Durban University of Technology (DUT) second-year fashion and textiles student Ismael Mchunu beat nine other participants to receive the 2022 Hollywoodbets Durban July Young Designer Award. This year’s theme was “Show Me the Honey”. In a statement on Tuesday, DUT said the award was presented by the Durban Fashion Fair, at Greyville Racecourse on Saturday. Mchunu, who is from Palmview in Phoenix, designed a garment inspired by a flower bud. He said the main aim of his design was to show the beauty inside the bud of the flower when it is open. “I saw the beauty inside the flower bud and transferred the features of the flower bud into my dress. I had a short skirt inside, followed by a long skirt and above the long skirt, I used twisted buttons and when you open the buttons, you will see the short skirt,” he said.   DUT said the gifted student designer, who already has two brands under his name called McXainny and Hairryman, is very keen to open his own fashion studio, a fashion factory and a clothing brand shop. “Mchunu received R50 000 in bursary support from the Hollywood Foundation. He also wins a trip to the prestigious SA Fashion Week in October, R10 000 in cash compliments of Gold Circle and Schweppes and a R5 000 gift card courtesy of Gateway Theatre of Shopping,” said the university. Mchunu thanked his DUT lecturers and the Hollywoodbets Durban July for giving DUT fashion students an opportunity to showcase their talent. He said he would love to work with Hollywoodbets going forward. The university said as the winning fashion institution, DUT received a R30 000 grant from Gold Circle, to be used to support programmes and for the development of design students. Professor Runette Kruger, executive dean at the Faculty of Arts and Design at DUT,  said the faculty was proud of Mchunu for winning the award. “The fashion students are supported and mentored by a very dedicated team of lecturers, and the talent in the department is next level. I cannot wait to see how Ismael and Sinqobile (Nzama) grow in their careers,” she said. Kruger said the faculty is also proud of Nzama, another DUT student who featured as a top 10 finalist. Nzama’s design was inspired by the wings and the eyes of a bee. Speaking at the event, she said she focused solely on the anatomy of a bee to inspire her creation of her garment.  “She has a brand and a registered company called I Conquer Creations and her future plan is to make custom-made looks for people. She also wants to open a manufacturing business and employ young talent, to create more community employment in the rural areas,” said the university.   THE MERCURY