Durban - ANC KwaZulu-Natal chairperson hopeful, Nomusa Dube-Ncube’s campaign will not be derailed by allegations of fraud and corruption. This is the word from campaign leader Wiseman Ngobese and comes after reports emerged in the weekend press indicating that Dube-Ncube was the subject of an investigation by the Hawks, over fraud and corruption. With the ANC KZN elective conference just four days away, lobbying for positions is said to be intense without any candidate emerging as the favourite for the position of chairperson. KZN Premier Sihle Zikalala, Dube-Ncube, ANC Provincial Executive Committee member Siboniso Duma and businessman Sandile Zungu have all raised their hands for the position. It has been suggested that while the contest appears to be a four-way tie, the battle is between Zikalala and Dube-Ncube. Yesterday Ngobese said they were shocked to learn of an “investigation” against Dube-Ncube.  “We are aware that law enforcement agencies have approached comrade Dube-Ncube, a few days before the provincial elective conference. As stated, such developments are worrying.” Ngobese warned that if the matter was not handled properly, it would compromise the elective conference. “We reiterate our position that the timing has left us, as comrades across the province, with the distinct impression that there is an orchestrated attempt to unleash the judiciary to achieve a particular outcome.” Despite this, Dube-Ncube was receiving support from many quarters who believed in her leadership qualities, Ngobese said. “We have been contacted by branches, the business community and religious leaders who have expressed outrage at the persecution of comrade Nomusa Dube-Ncube. “Branches have vowed to use their constitutional right to elect her because they believe she is the only one who will usher in a new socio-economic trajectory for KwaZulu-Natal,” said Ngobese. He insisted that the campaign was continuing with branches from different parts of KZN, warming up to the prospect of a woman chairperson. Dube-Ncube has stressed the importance of unity within the ANC, while equally stressing the role of alliance partners in the SACP, Cosatu, and the SA National Civics Organisation (Sanco). Approached for comment, Hawks spokesperson Simphiwe Mhlongo denied that there was any investigation against Dube-Ncube.  “Our office is not aware of any investigation against the MEC. In fact we were surprised to learn of this from the press,” said Mhlongo. Attempts to get comment from Zungu proved unsuccessful. Office of the Premier spokesperson Lennox Mabaso said the office would not be drawn into commenting on party political issues.  Zikalala is vying for his third term as chairperson, the position he assumed in 2015 when he defeated Senzo Mchunu at the Royal Showgrounds in Pietermaritzburg. ANC KZN spokesperson Nhlakanipho Ntombela described the investigation rumour as malicious.  “It is uncalled for and despicable for such rumours to be spread and if those who spread such are within the ranks of the movement shame on them.” The highly anticipated provincial elective conference, which was postponed by one week, will be held from Friday to Sunday at the Olive Convention Centre in Durban. THE MERCURY