Durban — The ActionSA in KwaZulu-Natal has started searching for another provincial chairperson after the sudden resignation of Musa Kubheka. Kubheka was in the position for only six months after taking over from Dr Makhosi Khoza, who was removed by the party earlier this year and then subsequently fired from the party. Kubheka's resignation was confirmed by the party in a statement on Friday, which said it had accepted his letter of resignation. National spokesperson Lerato Ngobeni told the Daily News on Sunday that Kubheka voluntarily stepped back as the provincial chairperson, saying he cited his family commitment and the pressure of work as a caucus leader of eThekwini party councillors as reasons for resignation. Ngobeni refuted claims that Kubheka was pushed out by the leadership. She said, for now, the party had no chairperson in the province and had started looking for a replacement. “Kubheka was an interim chairperson, so if he felt that he must relinquish the position, there was nothing the party could do, but he resigned voluntarily. He had all the support from everyone in the national office, but he will remain our councillor and caucus leader in eThekwini,” Ngobeni said. Kubheka confirmed his resignation and said he felt the party needed an experienced leader. “I am new in politics and feel that ActionSA needs a more experienced leader in KwaZulu-Natal than what I can offer because the people of South Africa need ActionSA, and it is the last hope. That’s the reason why I stepped aside,“ said Kubheka. Spelling out his vision in an exclusive interview with the paper after taking over in January, Kubheka had vowed to build his party to be a kingmaker in the province after the 2024 general elections, saying he did not accept the position but the challenge that comes with it, adding he regarded it as a challenge because it came at a time when there were only two years left before the 2024 general elections. He vowed to work hard, and said his party would play a major role in unseating the ANC in the province and be the kingmaker. His words pointed out he was looking beyond 2024 and sounded optimistic about growing the party and would criss-cross the province, launching branches. There are rumours that party bosses did not take kindly to his association with former president Jacob Zuma backer Bishop Vusi Dube, who is also an ANC legislature member. Kubheka is a pastor in Dube's eThekwini Community Church. “Firstly, I wish to thank my party for entrusting me with such an important position in provincial politics. Our founder has given marching orders (to the ANC) to make sure that we bring them below 50% everywhere it governs, and we have done that in local government elections, as many people saw. In my province, I can tell you that my party will be in government together with our coalition partners come the 2024 general elections,” said Kubheka after his appointment earlier this year. Daily News