DURBAN - Umgeni Water’s planned shutdown of Aqueduct 3 to conduct essential repairs to a leak  which was planned to start on Tuesday has been delayed till Thursday the 7, July and will last until Wednesday 13  July. Umgeni water said that the repairs were essential as they have been relying heavily on Aqueduct 3 to supply water to Durban Heights Water Treatment plant following Aqueduct 1 and Aqueduct 2 being out of commission due to damage caused by the April floods. On Monday , The Mercury reported that a leak in Aqueduct 3 had worsened  in the vicinity of Annet Drive, Reservoir Hills, Durban over the last three months. Umgeni water said that the shutting down of the aqueduct was necessary to prevent a potentially hazardous situation. “Aqueduct 3 conveys, on average, 180 million litres (Ml/d) of raw water daily from Nagle Dam to the Durban Heights Water Treatment Works (WTW) in Reservoir Hills. Similar to the other three aqueducts, this is a high-pressure pipe that conveys large volumes of water for treatment at the plant. In the interest of public safety and to prevent further water loss, Umgeni Water has taken a decision to shut down aqueduct 3.” Umgeni Water added that in terms of the work schedule provided by the contractor, it will take six days for the repairs to be completed, which includes a day for draining and drying of the inside of the pipe.  “During the shutdown, there will be a reduction in the amount of treated (potable) water Umgeni Water normally supplies to eThekwini Water and Sanitation.” Shami Harichunder, corporate stakeholder manager of Umgeni Water said that they had to delay the shutting down of Aqueduct 3 “due to the difficult situation we are in”.  “Aqueducts 1 and 2 are not being used due to damage caused by the April floods. We have been relying on Aqueducts 3 and 4 and shaft pumps to supply Durban Heights Water Treatment Works which supplies most reservoirs in Durban. However the repairs are essential. We will shut Aqueduct 3 from tomorrow until next Wednesday for the necessary repairs.” Harichunder added that they apologised for the convenience , the Reservoir 2 at Durban Heights has to be maintained at four metres to supply reservoirs in Durban.  “With the shutting down of Aqueduct 3 it will be difficult to maintain the 4m level and that will result in high lying areas South of Durban such as Chatsworth, Northdene and Umlazi receiving intermittent water or low pressure water for the next six days. We will do our utmost to ensure that the repairs to Aqueduct 3 are done as soon as possible.” THE MERCURY