Durban - Economic analysts have said while it was not likely that power utility Eskom would secure a 32.7% tariff increase from the National Energy Regulator of South Africa (Nersa), any increase would bring more pain for consumers already under financial strain. While Nersa still needs to publish Eskom’s tariff increase application for public comment and the amount being sought has not been confirmed, it has been widely noted that the power utility will seek an increase of about 32.7% for the financial year 1 April 2023 - 31 March 2024. The economic analysts said the double-digit increase demonstrated the poor management of Eskom. The country has been experiencing one of its worst rounds of power cuts over the past few weeks which Eskom attributed to a workers’ strike and a number of units failing. Professor Bonke Dumisa, an independent economic analyst, said Eskom’s application for a tariff increase of more than 30% was another sign of bad management at the power utility. “Eskom was granted a tariff increase of 9.6% by Nersa (earlier this year) and already that increase was not financially viable as it was above South Africa’s inflation rate. Eskom is in a crisis situation and needs to source funds for its operations and one of the ways it’s doing that is a high tariff increase. “It’s a sad situation for consumers as those who are actually paying their electricity bills are being put in a position where they have to pay more.” Dumisa added that it was unlikely that Nersa will grant Eskom the over 30% increase they applied for but consumers should be wary that a tariff increase was likely. “We have to expect it, Eskom needs to generate funds and we will see a tariff increase. Another reason why Eskom finds itself in a dire situation is the municipalities that have not been paying Eskom and still owe money. There is also the challenge of illegal connections which has added to Eskom’s troubles.” Professor Irrshad Kaseeram, of the University of Zululand’s Economics Department, said Eskom is in a bad situation and they will be granted a tariff increase. “This tariff increase has come about because of poor management of the power entity over a number of years. The situation we find ourselves in is that the government just can’t afford to bail out Eskom anymore, the economy won’t be able to sustain it and most likely if they did, it would lead to increased borrowing and plunge South Africa further into debt.” Kaseeram added that a tariff increase will be approved by Nersa but not as much as Eskom wants. “It’s a desperate situation but it’s unlikely that Nersa will grant Eskom a 32% increase. “However it will be enough to put more pressure on the struggling consumer. “We are already dealing with major rising fuel costs, rising inflation and trying to recover from the Covid-19 pandemic, and this will only burden the consumer more. We are really in tough times and Eskom is making it more difficult.” Eskom spokesperson Sikonathi Mantshantsha said that by law every year Eskom must request a price increase from Nersa, a process that involves public participation. “Once Nersa has heard all the stakeholders, it will make a decision on what increase must be awarded and for what service.” Nersa is expected to publish the tariff increase application on August 1. THE MERCURY