Durban — A child was caught in the crossfire when a man suspected of robbing a supermarket was shot dead outside Durban on Monday. Amawele Emergency Services spokesperson Claude Subramodey said they were called out to the 1104 informal settlement for a shooting incident. Subramodey said the accident response unit arrived at the scene within minutes and found a man in his 30s with multiple gunshot wounds to his body and face. “There was nothing more we could do for the patient, and declared him dead on the scene,” Subramodey said. He said the victim was a suspect in the robbery of the Check Save store in Shallcross minutes before he was shot. “There was also a child +-8 to 10 years of age, who was hit in the crossfire in his buttocks and transported privately to hospital,” Subramodey said. He said the man’s body was handed over to the police for further investigation. Subramodey thanked the eThekwini Secure Zello Channel for assisting and dispatching the necessary services, and the Malvern community policing forum for back-up. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said that the complainant alleged that on July 4, 2022, at 5.30pm, she was performing her duties at a business premises on Himalaya Drive in Chatsworth when she was approached by three armed suspects. “At gunpoint the suspects demanded money and removed cash from tills. The suspects also robbed her of cigarettes and cellphones before fleeing the crime scene on foot,” Gwala said. She said the incident was immediately reported to the police, and they responded swiftly. “The members saw the suspects fleeing the crime scene on foot. A chase ensued during which the suspects opened fire at the police members. As a result, one of the suspects was shot and fell between the shacks. It was later established that he sustained fatal gunshot wounds to the chest,” Gwala said. “During the shoot-out a ten-year-old child sustained a gunshot wound to the buttocks and was rushed to hospital for medical treatment.” Gwala said that no injuries were sustained by any SAPS officials. “A firearm was also found at the scene,” Gwala said. “An inquest docket and case of robbery were opened at Chatsworth police station for investigation.” Daily News