Durban - Public swimming pools in eThekwini are in a severe state of disrepair and will cost close to R100 million to repair. In an interview with The Mercury, deputy mayor Philani Mavundla expressed concern about the city’s pools located between North and South Beach following a site inspection. He described them as an eyesore. He urged Durban residents to give his cluster, the human settlements and infrastructure committee which would lead some of the repair work, until the end of this year to address the problems, saying the “public will see the difference”. Opposition party councillors said the assessment of the pools’ state of disrepair was accurate and the community services unit which managed the pools should account for the damage. Mavundla said among the pools in need of repairs were the Rachel Finlayson pool located in front of the beachfront restaurants, the children’s pools and the King’s Park pool. “The city will need close to R100 million to fix some of these pools as they are in a severe state of disrepair and are an eyesore,” said Mavundla. He said the equipment in the King’s Park pool was not working. “The pool is supposed to be heated and the equipment there needs to be repaired.” He said in the Newlands area, the pool had seepage issues and this was affecting the houses below it. However, Mavundla added that some of the pools that were managed by the municipality were still in good condition. He urged Durban residents to give his department time to address the challenges. “The residents should give us until the end of this year to address these problems and they will see the difference. “I have been here for seven months. In that time we have been moving forward. We have cut the overtime budget in favour of creating jobs by hiring more staff. We are talking of insourcing some of our services to avoid our people, like in the security industry, being exploited by the companies.” Mayor Mxolisi Kaunda, speaking during an executive committee last week, said the state of some of the city’s facilities pointed to the need for the city to get value for money when contracting service providers to do work. He said there were instances where the quality of the work by service providers did not correlate with the money the city paid. DA councillor Nicole Graham said the city’s pools were in a terrible condition. “This indicates how far the municipality has decayed. For years we had lovely swimming pools. We can’t keep talking about these things without acknowledging how we got here. We have many city departments that are simply dysfunctional. “We get contractors to do jobs that they are simply not qualified to do, and when they do the work badly, instead of being held accountable, they get more work under the guise of transformation. It’s a complete mess,” said Graham. IFP councillor Mdu Nkosi said they hoped officials from the Community Services Unit would act now as the matter had been raised. “They have the budget, they have to explain what they are using this budget for. There are many complaints relating to many of the tasks they are supposed to perform, there are complaints about the maintenance of the cemeteries, among other things.” Nkosi said it was damaging to the image of the city to have swimming pools that were not being used. “I do not know how we got here as the city. Such things did not happen before. Economic development and tourism are closely related. Who is going to visit this city if the parks are not maintained and the swimming pools are not working? As these pools are without water, anything could happen in them, resulting in damage that could cost even more to repair,” he said. THE MERCURY