Neesha Maharaj Durban: For 22 years, Pastor Ronnie Naidoo has provided shelter to the elderly, frail, abused, and orphaned children at the Haven of Rest in Tongaat. But now when he needs a sympathetic ear over a R2 million utility bill, he says there is no response from the authorities. Naidoo, the pastor at the Apostolic Faith Mission of South Africa in Tongaat, has received letters of demand from the eThekwini Municipality. He needs to pay the outstanding amount in full together with interest and penalties. If not, the city will institute legal proceedings. The bulk of the arrears is for water, and Naidoo believes the Haven of Rest has been incorrectly billed. The facility, which he and his wife Shirley founded in 2000, is located on four hectares of land. The land was previously owned by Tongaat Hulett and then Investec, until the Naidoos bought it. There are 13 frail-care patients, 32 elderly residents and 28 orphans aged from 6 months to 18 years living on the premises. There are also 60 employees. A dialysis centre for outpatients, run by a private medical facility, operates on site. Naidoo said all the services at the Haven of Rest were free and the only source of income was public donations. “On Friday, the municipality sent us another letter of demand. We are not a business, but a non-profit organisation. We live off goodwill but there seems to be no compassion from them (the city) towards our plight,” said Naidoo. “If they want to disconnect the water, there is nothing much we can do.” In 2019, the facility was in arrears with the municipality for R324 000. At the time, the organisation could not make consistent payments. Naidoo said they had then made an arrangement with the city to pay R27 000 towards the arrears over 12 months – over and above the monthly amount that was owed. The arrears were paid off as per the arrangements, he said. He said during the nationwide lockdown in March 2020, their income dwindled but they still managed to assist residents in Tongaat and eThekwini, handing out hundreds of food hampers and vouchers. Naidoo said they began receiving irregular bills from July 2020. “Some months we would receive bills of about R600 000 and other times of around R140 000. For almost seven months, during the height of the pandemic, the water meter was out of order. “To alleviate the exorbitant bills and cut further costs, we switched off our geysers, boiled water outside for the residents and cooked on a gas stove or an outside fire.” They also used water from six 50 000-litre capacity Jojo tanks that were installed on the property. “We tried and did so much to reduce our consumption, yet to date our account is over R2 million. It’s ridiculous. This is also despite Tongaat not having piped water since the floods in April. We have not used water from the municipality since then but we still get bills showing water usage. This does not make sense.” Naidoo said in addition to water obtained from the Jojo tanks and sourced from an on-site borehole, they also got private donations of water. The water is transferred to a large drum where it is boiled before the caretakers deliver it in buckets to the residents. Naidoo, who budgeted R67 000 for the monthly utility bills, said he had sent emails to the municipality querying the account but did not get a response. “Nobody is willing to meet with me face-to-face to expedite this matter. All I’m asking is why is the bill so high. I am not getting any feedback. The only communication is letters of demand. The bill is escalating by R13 000 to R15 000 a month due to the interest.” He said when the Ark shelter on Mahatma Gandhi (Point) Road closed years ago, the municipality had asked him to provide accommodation to 33 homeless people. “We did not turn them down. I recall people being bused in at midnight by the municipality and now when we need a sympathetic ear, we seem to have no one. Other than also being a halfway house for substance abuse, the Haven of Rest provides 360 meals per day to residents on the property, and we continue to give out food hampers. “Despite not getting funding from the municipality, province or national government, especially during the pandemic, we have continued to give to our community unselfishly. We hope the debt will be written off.” Geoff Pullan, the councillor for Tongaat, said Naidoo had contacted him to assist. “There are no water pipe leaks for them to have received such a huge bill. I gathered all the required information and sent it to an official in the billing department some time ago. It was the official’s job to deal with the matter. I thought this matter would have been resolved by now. For me to assist Pastor Naidoo, he will have to forward me all the documents again so I can escalate the matter,” he said. On Tuesday, Msawakhe Mayisela, the spokesperson for the municipality, said: “The city is looking into the matter. A meeting is planned as a result to chart the way forward.” The Post