Durban - The sweet sounds of the acclaimed Kearsney College choir, won the male choirs section of the Summa Cum Laude International Youth Music Festival in Vienna on Sunday. The 53-member choir is relishing the opportunity to tour and perform again, after two Covid-19 impacted years during which they were not able to entertain international audiences. The Kearsney boys performed in Prague yesterday. Kearsney College headmaster, Elwyn van den Aardweg said having been denied opportunities to perform and tour for so long, the choir were thrilled to once again be hitting the road, taking their magic to European audiences. “Their outstanding, slick performances have again brought pride to their school and country, while entertaining appreciative audiences,” Van den Aardweg said. The boys gave their all and their synchronisation was flawless, earning them a rating of “Outstanding Success”, he said. Kearsney staff accompanying the choir expressed pride in the boys’ performance and delight at the audience’s response to the highly energetic performance style.      They performed in the famous Golden Hall in Vienna and the varied repertoire showcased their versatility with numbers such as El Hombre Armado (medieval melody), Trinklied, Awakening the Ancestors, Khoydt Zaychyk (Ukrainian lullaby), Sucker (Jonas Brothers) and Sab’ Inganono (Afraid of the Cannons). “Each item on the programme was met with thunderous applause and the final performance received a three-minute standing ovation by the judging panel and audience. The crowd had to be quietened to permit the judges to comment,” said the school. On Tuesday, they participated in the Gala Winners’ Concert, before going to Prague.  Durban residents shared congratulatory messages on Facebook expressing how proud they were of the boys. One resident wrote: “You’ve done it again, Kearney Choir, you’ve wowed the judges. I’m not part of your school but I always feel so proud of your achievements as a member of the Upper Highway community.” Another said: “Congratulations for your wonderful achievement. Your choir deserves the accolades. Your voices are spectacular.” And another wrote: “Congrats Kearsney College, you doing South Africa, KwaZulu-Natal, Hillcrest such pride. Well done boys.” THE MERCURY