Durban — A scrap metal collector and his assistant made a brief appearance at the Durban Magistrate’s Court, on Monday, for being in possession of stolen copper. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said that on Sunday, Newlands East police were conducting patrol duties on Drumcastle Road when they noticed a scrapyard full of scrap metals and lots of unknown men were queuing outside the premises. The police went into the scrapyard and approached the owner. Police requested to search the premises. “On searching, the police found copper cables in drums. The owner allegedly failed to comply with the second-hand goods compliance and was then arrested for possession of suspected stolen goods,” Gwala said. While police were interviewing the owner a woman allegedly began interfering with the police by shouting, taking pictures and demanding they release the owner. “She was then arrested and charged for interfering with police investigation. Both suspects aged 21 and 40 were arrested. They will appear before the Durban Magistrate’s Court next week,” Gwala said. Police also found burnt copper cables, aluminium and aluminium pot lids. The pieces of copper cables plied off weighed 96 to 452 kilograms. Gwala said police in KwaZulu-Natal have embarked on a number of multidisciplinary operations targeting a variety of crimes taking place in different communities. These operations have been put in place to strategically combat crime in all districts across the province. Ethekwini District Commissioner, Major General MV Kheswa said: “Well done to all partners involved. Arrests will continue until infrastructure in eThekwini is no longer tampered with.” Meanwhile, during the period from June 1, 2022, until June 30, 2022, police officers across the province arrested 7 992 persons for various crimes. A total of 2 407 arrests were made for contact crimes. The contact crimes arrests includes 210 arrests for murder, 112 for attempted murder, 204 for rape and 1 055 for assaults. Daily News