Durban - THE ANC Youth League (ANCYL) in eThekwini region has called for the immediate axing of Eskom chief executive Andre de Ruyter and the entire board, accusing them of collapsing the power utility. The call was made during a media briefing at the league’s offices in Durban yesterday.  As the country continues to experience rolling blackouts, disrupting business activity across different sectors, Youth League regional secretary Thulisa Ndlela said it was time that action was taken against the Eskom boss and board.  The league said the Eskom leadership had been given a significant amount of time to demonstrate their capabilities in turning around the fortunes of the power utility. “De Ruyter and the board have done a successful job in collapsing Eskom, causing massive damage to business and households in the process, and we believe that now that they have completed their mission, it is time for them to go,” said Ndlela. The youth league raised the issue of the recent strike by workers at the power utility which had seen the country experiencing load shedding for extended periods of time. According to the youth league, the fact that the workers who embarked on strike over higher wages were the same workers who had worked without issue under the previous regime, showed a lack of leadership from the current chief executive and the board. “In soccer when the team is not performing well, it is not the players who get fired, but the coach and the technical team. In the same breath we call for the CEO and the board to be axed,” Ndlela said. According to the youth league, there are several competent black executives available who could do a better job than the current Eskom boss. The league said it would be closely monitoring developments at the power utility and how the leadership would respond. “It has been demonstrated in the past that appointing a new board and CEO is not a long and drawn-out process. There was an ANC elective conference in December 2017, and by mid-2018 a new Eskom board and CEO were appointed. So the same energy that was applied in bringing the current crop of people should be applied in removing them and getting better people to manage the entity.” The youth has also demanded to be given a position in the eThekwini Municipality’s Executive Committee (Exco), singling out the Economic Development portfolio as a key position that it would be gunning for. The position is currently held by former youth league national secretary Thanduxolo Sabela, who appears to have fallen out of favour with the new leadership of the ANC in eThekwini region. The league said that in the current Exco both the mother body and the Women’s League were represented, and that it was time that they were represented as well. THE MERCURY