Durban — The Department of Transport, Community Safety and Liaison revealed that a budget of more than R100 million would be needed to rehabilitate the M4 after it was damaged during the heavy rains and floods in April. The amount was revealed on Saturday during a ceremony for the official opening of the M4 Umdloti River bridge, which was washed away in April. Acting Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Jomo Sibiya said the government had been able to work  with society and the Dolphin Coast community, and had said “let us fix what has been damaged”. “Today (Saturday) premier, I can say to you that this bridge has cost us about R22 million as the Department of Transport,” Sibiya said. “In total, the budget, moving towards Ballito, it’s more than R100 million.” He said the M4 was also used by people travelling from Nquthu, Ulundi and Melmoth. Residents went all-out for the opening ceremony as breakfast, dance, karate and yoga formed part of it. KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala joined the community of La Mercy for the official opening. As part of the support and services provided by the SANDF to the provincial government’s disaster relief efforts, a multi-disciplinary team of engineers and operators had been assigned to support the Department of Transport in the repair and rebuilding of roads and bridges. The provincial government said other sections of the M4, which were still closed due to ongoing repairs, were expected to be reopened in the next few weeks. Zikalala launched phase 1 of the M4 road reconstruction project, and re-opened the M4 uMdloti River bridge, near La Mercy, following extensive repairs. The re-opening of the M4 uMdloti River bridge will ease traffic from the N2 uMdloti off-ramp at La Mercy, to Westbrook. This milestone also marks an important development for the Dolphin Coast communities, who were heavily affected by the destruction of the bridge, which is part of a major economic corridor that links La Mercy, uMhlanga, King Shaka International Airport and Ballito. Zikalala thanked the community of La Mercy for uniting and working together to rebuild the important community asset. “We are here today to bear testimony to the resilience of a community that has stood together during trying and testing times. Even though the heavy rains destroyed the roads and crucial infrastructure, they did not wash away Ubuntu, unity and social cohesion displayed by the community,” Zikalala said. “We applaud the community of La Mercy for standing united during the worst floods to hit the province in history. We know that the community still faces water shortage issues and that some are still housed in the local hall. All these challenges are being attended to.” Zikalala said the provincial government’s main priority is to repair the destroyed roads and infrastructure as well as secure suitable land to build proper houses for displaced families who are currently housed in mass care centres. Last month, the Daily News reported that soldiers deployed under Operation Chariot in KZN continued to rehabilitate  damaged sections on the M4 and Leo Boyd Highway. The men and women in uniform are involved in two projects at the M4/Leo Boyd Highway, and another project at La Mercy. Lieutenant Phuti Badimo said that led by SA Army Construction troop commander Captain Siyabonga Khumalo, the reconstruction of the uMdloti bridge and the M4 highway in La Mercy were under way. Daily News