Durban — The death toll in the fiery crash on the P291 between Babanango and Nquthu on Wednesday has risen to 10. Initially, it was reported that seven people, including a 12-year-old, died in the crash on Wednesday. On Thursday morning, the police increased the tally to eight. However, the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Transport, Community Safety and Liaison yesterday said the crash claimed the lives of 10 people. It said over the past weekend, more than 24 lives were lost in separate crashes on provincial roads. “Reports suggest that a laden minibus taxi travelling from Nquthu towards Babanango collided head-on with a light motor vehicle travelling in the opposite direction. The taxi caught fire with passengers trapped inside.  “Seven people were declared dead on the scene, while 11 others sustained serious injuries. Three others were confirmed dead this morning after they succumbed in a local hospital,” the department said. MEC Peggy Nkonyeni called for motorists to be extra vigilant to curb the increasing spate of fatal road crashes in the province. Nkonyeni said this was a moment to pose and reflect on what we as a society can do to make road safety our collective responsibility. The MEC condemned motorists who are showing total disregard for traffic regulations. “We are seriously concerned about the high number of people that we are losing on the road. We have just come from a ‘dark weekend’ where we lost more than 24 people. As if that was not enough, ten people have also died in the Babanango accident.  “We need to pose and introspect as the province and as a people. We cannot afford to lose so many people on the road. We are once again appealing to the conscience of all road users to always obey the traffic laws. Police must act decisively against those drivers who will be found to be on the wrong side of the law,” Nkonyeni said. Earlier, KZN police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said that a case of culpable homicide was being investigated by Nquthu SAPS. Gwala said it was alleged that on Wednesday at 4.50pm, in the Nkalankala area, a taxi transporting 18 passengers collided with a vehicle carrying four people. “Both vehicles caught fire and the passengers in a taxi were trapped inside. A total of eight people that were in a taxi, including the driver, died,” Gwala said. She said others sustained injuries and were rushed to the hospital for medical attention. “The matter is still under investigation,” Gwala said. On Wednesday night, KZN Emergency Medical Services spokesperson Robert Mckenzie reported that seven people had been killed in a crash on the P291 between Nquthu and Babanango. “Tragically, seven people have sustained fatal injuries in this crash and paramedics from KZN Emergency Medical Services, together with their colleagues from a private ambulance service, have transported 12 patients to hospital for continued medical care,” Mckenzie said. “One of these patients was in a critical condition while the remaining patients had sustained serious injuries.” Mckenzie said that among the dead were six adults and one 12-year-old child. However, he was not sure of their gender. Mckenzie said the exact cause of the crash was unknown at that stage and was going to be investigated by the police. “However, we do know that both vehicles caught alight after the crash,” added Mckenzie. The crash came days after three crashes claimed the lives of at least 24 people in KZN over the weekend. Two separate crashes on the N11 outside Ladysmith are believed to have claimed 12 lives, while one crash on the R617 near Mpophomeni also claimed 12 lives. Meanwhile, with regards to the Mpophomeni crash, the driver of a bakkie that was allegedly driving at an excessive speed that collided with the taxi and a police car has been arrested and is facing 12 charges of culpable homicide, negligent driving and driving under the influence of alcohol. MEC Nkonyeni has sent her heartfelt condolences to all the families of the victims. DA KZN transport spokesperson Sharon Hoosen said the party had received an assurance from KZN Transport portfolio committee chairperson, Siboniso Mtshali, that the department would be called to account following several days of horrific carnage on the province’s roads. Hoosen said that despite the carnage on provincial roads having reached epidemic proportions, the department had been silent for some time on road safety measures. She said the DA’s intention at the next portfolio committee would be to establish what strategies the department has in place to reduce the loss of life on the roads. The DA urged the MEC and the department to act swiftly to ensure: “It is very clear that this department needs a comprehensive intensified safety strategy, with a clearly articulated road safety plan if it is to fight this scourge,” Hoosen said. “It is time that this department woke up and acted with urgency. KZN’s people can no longer place their lives in danger every time they travel on our roads.” Daily News