Durban - Abahlali baseMjondolo has accused the police of “botching” the investigation into the assassination of one of their leaders Nokuthula Mabaso two months ago. In a statement, the organisation said the police are doing such a poor job of investigating that they even failed to collect all the bullets at the scene of the shooting that was used to kill Mabaso. Mabaso was murdered in the eKhenana Commune. She had been  attending a community meeting just a few meters away from her house when she was shot dead. The organisation said the police had not taken the investigation of this murder seriously since the day it happened. On the day it happened, it said: “The police refused to come to eKhenana when Nokuthula's body was lying on the ground, despite confessing that they had heard a gunshot. “As they did not bother to thoroughly examine the crime scene, one bullet remained on the crime scene and was picked up by a community member the following morning.  The bullet was brought into Abahlali offices so that it could be safely handed over to the Investigating Officer,” adding that this bullet was still in their offices.  “It is very concerning that, since the day of the murder, the police have not investigated this murder. Up until today, there is no Investigating Officer allocated to this case. Up until today, there is no case number for that matter. “We call upon the Minister of Police, Bheki Cele, to come and fetch the bullet that killed Nokuthula Mabaso himself. We call upon the Minister to appoint an Investigating Officer from the Provincial level himself,” it said. The police, however, said in a statement that a case of murder is being investigated by Cato Manor SAPS after a 39-year-old woman was fatally shot by an unknown suspect at Khenana. “The scene was cordoned off, and evidence was obtained. If there is someone who took a cartridge at the scene, kindly share the information and the contact details of that person. Police are investigating the case diligently, and we appeal to anyone who may be able to assist to get in touch with the investigating officer. “We are also appealing to anyone who may have information about the suspects to contact the local police or Crime Stop on 0860 010 111,” said the police statement. THE MERCURY