Durban - An additional 86 “people of interest” may be arrested for last year’s civil unrest, Police Minister Bheki Cele announced on Friday.  The Justice, Crime Prevention and Security Cluster had confirmed that more than 3000 cases have been finalised.  They said more than 8000 incidents had been reported to police including incitement to commit public violence, murder, attempted murder, arson, malicious damage to property, possession of suspected stolen property, damage to infrastructure and culpable homicide.  KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng experienced violent unrest between July 8 and 17 last year, which resulted in the loss of lives, looting, destruction of property and the disruption of economic activity.  Cele said the police and the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks) had arrested at least 5000 people and more than 3300 cases had been finalised thus far through non-prosecution, with some being withdrawn in or before court.  More than 2900 cases were closed as undetected or unfounded. Nineteen people had been arrested on suspicion of instigating the unrest. “Of the 19 cases, two have been withdrawn and the other accused are on bail. If they are on bail, this means there is a case to answer for,” Cele said.  He promised an update soon. Investigation of about 2200 cases had been concluded, and were pending a decision on the viability to prosecute. “A number of dockets have been referred to the Directors of Public Prosecutions for a decision and further guidance and direction on the matter.  Over 2435 cases are on court rolls, with over 50 cases finalised with guilty verdicts,” he said. In Phoenix, 164 cases were investigated. “And 120 cases are still under investigation, with a total of 69 suspects arrested for various crimes. Thirty-six of these suspects were arrested for their respective roles in the murder of 35 people, while 31 people have been arrested for attempted murder,” Cele said. Elaine Zungu, KwaZulu-Natal’s director of public prosecutions, said they had received eight cases. “Of these eight, we declined to prosecute two cases due to insufficient evidence. One was withdrawn as the only witness couldn’t be traced. Three have been indicted and will appear as follows: 25 July – State versus Naidoo and Others for pre-trial, 21 November to 2 December – S v Pillay for trial and on February 23, 2023, to March 26, 2023 – S v Govender and Others for trial. The other two matters are at the Regional Court level.”  Teslyn David, an attorney from Chris Gounden Incorporated, who had represented several Phoenix defendants, said four of the 10 cases they handled had been withdrawn.  While the wheels of justice turn, social cohesion initiatives for residents of Inanda and Phoenix are ongoing. During the days of the unrest last year, members of these communities had squared up to each other. Mbongeni Phewa, the public relations officer for the Inanda Community Policing Forum (CPF), said several peace programmes had been implemented. “We have structures in place and have the input of pastors and community leaders.  Two months ago we hosted a sports event at the Inanda Stadium where Indians came along, and it was a success,” said Phewa.  Dinesh Pillay, chairperson of the Phoenix CPF, said, “We have had several programmes since last year and things are looking positive.” SUNDAY TRIBUNE