HORSE owner and attorney Keegan Govender is lapping up the opportunity to be a part of Saturday’s Hollywoodbets Durban July Handicap proceedings at the Greyville Racecourse. Govender is a part-owner of the 3-year-old gelding William Robertson, which starts as the bookmakers favourite in the Grade 2 Post Merchants, which will be run over a distance of 1 200m, and carries a stake of R400 000. William Robertson’s  back-to-back wins in the Rising Sun Durban Dash (June 11) at Greyville over 1 100m, and victory in a 1 400m race, five days later and run in Joburg, has given Govender optimism he could be back in the winner’s circle on Africa’s show-case race-day. But being an avid participant in the sport of king’s, Govender knows victory in the 14-horse field of the Merchants won’t be a leisurely trot down the track. Govender said the horse’s biggest hurdle was overcoming its wide draw (12), especially since the race will be run around the bend. “It will be a test of character for the horse, overcoming the wide draw, and how jockey S’manga Khumalo pilot’s his mount. “S’manga seems to know the horse well, having ridden him to victory in its last two starts. We’re hoping for a hat-trick (tomorrow) on Saturday,” said Govender. The other shareholders in the ownership of William Robertson are Rob Mcnab, Jannie de Lange and Corne Spies, who is also the horse’s trainer. Govender and the rest of his syndicate also own another horse, Clean Living, which is a runner in the first race to be run on July Day. For many years, the July Handicap has always been a special day in the Govender household. “As I got older I got more involved in horse racing and in 2016 I purchased my first horse (Eve Wilke).” Since then, Govender has owned eight horses, including the two running on Saturday. Govender won’t be breaking new ground if one of his horses were to win on “July Day”. He already achieved that honour in 2020 when his horse, Nourbese, won a 1 400m Grade 2 race on the day. But Govender wants more of that winning feeling. “There’s no better feeling when your horse wins, especially on July Day.” Govender, formerly from Chatsworth, south of Durban and a avid sportsman, said he has been “lucky in the game”. “It is testament to my trainer (Spies) who finds good horses at good value and I'm happy to stay with him. “Saturday is also an extra-special day for me because It marks the 10th year since I opened my law practice.” When his horses win, Govender said he prefers to “savour the moment” with his family. His three-year-old twins love watching replays of “dad’s horse” winning and him speaking on TV. Spies said: “July Day is the pinnacle of racing in South Africa. Just to have a runner on the day is a dream come true for some owners… many don't get the opportunity. Winning is something else.” About William Robertson’s  chances of victory, he was also concerned about the draw, but backed the jockey’s understanding of the horse to overcome the odds and be in contention for a first place finish. “We are hoping to get it right for Keegan and the others,” Spies said. SUNDAY TRIBUNE