Durban - Twelve people were shot dead in two separate incidents in Mariannhill, west of Durban on Saturday.  In the first incident, seven people were fatally shot at the Sqhopholozi Tuckshop in Savannah Park at 7.30pm. The tuckshop also doubled as a makeshift tavern where it sold alcohol.  The victims were seated inside a wood and iron structure that was attached to a shipping container, situated at the corner of Mpanza and Nxele streets, Savannah Park near Mariannhill.  A group of three men emerged from the dark and began shooting randomly inside and outside the tuckshop. Provincial police spokesperson, Brigadier Jay Naicker said six people, aged between 30 and 65, died at the scene a seventh person died in hospital. “Initial investigations revealed that three of the deceased were the tuckshop owner as well as his two sons, and one other man who was waiting at the tuckshop to see a traditional healer, might have been the actual target of the hit. "We will do everything within our control to bring these killers to book," he said. The deceased were Duncan Mzobe, 65 (tuckshop owner), his nephews Sanele Mzobe and Sibusiso Mzobe, Phumlani Mphithiphithi, 62, who was a customer, Siya Dumisani Mshengu also known as Rasta, Sphamandla Shezi, and Siya Khinisa, who died in hospital. In Dassenhoek, which is also within the Mariannhill area, a man walked into a house and tried to rob four people of their cellphones and cash, said Naicker.  “It is alleged that the people in the house disarmed the man. They allegedly assaulted him and let him go. The man allegedly returned a short while later and shot three women and a man inside the house. Another man was shot dead in the yard. A lady was shot in the shoulder and is recovering in hospital,” Naicker said.  KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Neliswa Peggy Nkonyeni spoke to the victims’ families and urged the community to work with the police to prevent crime and expose criminals.  KwaZulu-Natal police commissioner Lieutenant-General Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi has mobilised all available police resources to hunt down the assailants. Mkhwanazi said the incidents, once again, demonstrated the SAPS's concern that firearms are contributing to the high levels of crime in the province, and police are advocating for stricter regulations regarding the management of legal firearms as many of them end up being used by criminals. "We will do everything within our control to bring these killers to book," he said. Daily News