Durban - Councillors in eThekwini Municipality want close scrutiny of hired water tankers to make sure they deliver water to needy communities after wide-ranging complaints about their performance. The issue came to the fore during discussions yesterday as the city voted to approve an extra R15 million to hire water tankers. Councillors said they had received complaints that water tankers were not delivering water as they should. The councillors said they had received a report alleging that water tankers were concentrated in some wards, while other wards were left unattended, and that some water tanker drivers were disrespectful towards communities. Another complaint received was that the tankers sometimes delivered water when residents were at work. A report was tabled before the executive committee yesterday requesting authority to transfer funds within the 2021/22 water operations budget for the hiring of water tankers. It said the water sanitation unit used tankers to supply areas affected by intermittent water supply as a result of a variety of reasons including burst pipes, theft and vandalism. “As such, authority is sought to transfer savings identified in the amount of R15 million to hire tankers to ensure a stable supply of water to the local communities,” it said. The request sparked outrage from councillors, who said the hiring of water tankers was a waste of money and that the city should purchase its own tankers. DA councillor Yogis Govender said they were calling for a comprehensive report on tankers, particularly on hiring. “(An amount of) R15 million is a lot of money for a temporary measure, when it can be better utilised towards a permanent solution. The city has been using tankers for so long, yet calling it a temporary measure. But in many wards it has become a permanent situation. “Most of our tankers are not road worthy, the fleet is limping along, being wholly inadequate. In many communities, this has become a human rights issue of epic proportions as some only have access to water via tankers once in every four to seven days.” “In EWS (eThekwini water) there is no culture of performance management. EWS has been slow to find and implement solutions, which is deliberately enabling this tanker millionaire club. “We spend more money paying for hire than pushing that money into sustainable solutions,” said Govender. EFF councillor Thabane Miya said he had received a call from one of his colleagues in oThongathi complaining that his area was not being serviced. “We are also getting reports that these water tanker drivers have an attitude towards the community.” Mdu Nkosi of the IFP demanded to know about the tankers that the city had bought, saying he was aware the city had bought tankers and that some of them were not working. He was promised that a report on the matter would be tabled at the next meeting. Durban mayor Mxolisi Kaunda said the city was in the process of acquiring its own water tankers, which would reduce the reliance on hired vehicles. Acting city manager Musa Mbhele said the city was putting control mechanisms in place to ensure that the owners of water tankers were paid for the work they had done. The mechanisms would also ensure that owners who do not deliver water did not get paid.