Durban - A 31-year-old man was killed and another man shot and kidnapped after they were accosted at a men’s hostel in KwaMashu on Sunday. Provincial police spokesperson Constable Thenjiswa Ngcobo said the incident took place on Sunday at 6:30pm at a men’s hostel on Musa Road in KwaMashu. Ngcobo said it was alleged that three men were seated outside a shack at the hostel when they were accosted by eight armed men. She said the suspects demanded a gun from one of the victims but he refused to co-operate. “They opened fire, fatally wounding a 31-old-year man and two victims sustained gunshot wounds,” said Ngcobo. Ngcobo said the fourth victim managed to run away but was followed by the suspects who shot and kidnapped him. She said the injured victims were taken to hospital for medical attention. Charges of murder, attempted murder and kidnapping were opened at KwaMashu Police Station for investigation. On Saturday, Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) spokesperson Prem Balram, said a 28-year-old man was found in a critical condition after he was shot in the head on Malendela Road in KwaMashu. He said a passerby contacted Rusa just before 5:40am requesting assistance for the injured man and reaction officers and Rusa medics were immediately dispatched to the scene. “On arrival (Rusa members) found the victim lying in a pool of blood on the side of the road. He sustained a gunshot wound to his head,” said Balram. Balram said the man was stabilised on the scene by medics before he was transported to a hospital in a critical condition. Meanwhile, The Mercury reported that four people were killed at Samkelisiwe Tavern in kwaNxamalala, Sweetwaters, in Pietermaritzburg on Saturday evening after gunmen opened fire. Provincial commissioner Lieutenant-General Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi deployed members of Crime Intelligence, forensic experts and the tactical unit to form part of an investigation team led by the Provincial Organised Crime Investigation Unit to the capital city. THE MERCURY