Durban - Event organisers and big corporates made a remarkable comeback in a show of opulence and classy hospitality at various marquees at the Hollywoodbets Durban July, at Greyville Racecourse  on Saturday. After a two-year break due to the Covid-19 lockdown, racegoers and fashion enthusiasts were eager for the hospitality, entertainment, and food that Durban July is known for. The hosts lived up to the crowd’s expectations against a backdrop of economic challenges and a power crisis.  With new sponsors, Hollywoodbets, the atmosphere of the pre-Covid-19 Durban July was revived and did not disappoint.  Many marquees went for the popular royal decor, with gold, black and red being the dominant colours. The debutant Signature Soiree marquee was among the most attractive tents, hosting top business leaders. Patrons had to part with R6 000 each to gain entry. The packages varied according to the number of people, and some packages went up to R60 000 for 10 people. The VIPs were treated to a variety of food, including a harvest table, sushi bar, ice cream bar, roaming canapes, and lunch and dinner buffet.  Nikita Gouveia, marketing and media manager for the Signature Soiree, said theirs was a ‘business meets pleasure’. “This is a place where top A-listers, business-minded people, and different industry leaders come to the same space for future business. It is a business networking kind of marquee: luxurious, opulent, and very sophisticated but with the element of fun and entertainment, and delicious food,”she said.  The Durban-based Isibaya Casino treated its premier customers free of charge with luxury entertainment and food. Among black and gold decorations, including gold food dishes, over 25 dishes were served.  Virath Gbrie, Isibaya general manager, said they chose their loyal customers as a sign of gratitude. We carried all the costs and they did not have to pay. They will come and be able to bet because that is what we are known for. We have unlimited food and drinks and plenty of music,” he added. The Durban Tourism hosted most patrons with a double-decker marquee which stood out at the entrance. Philip Sithole, Deputy City Manager for Economic Development in eThekwini Municipality, said July was a good opportunity for the city to reinvent itself as a holiday destination. “We want to come and remind people that Durban is the best.Many emerging tourism organisations had a chance to come here and showcase their services. This will assist them to attract more visitors,” he said. Hollywoodbets had three marquees, where they hosted various celebrities, socialites and influencers. Sandisiwe Bhengu, Group of Operations Africa, said the turnout was phenomenal and it showed what they were capable of. “We have a marquee and a champions' room here. We have our partners from various countries, which is good for the country. "We've got enough fashion styles and celebrities that Durban July is known for,” he said.  The Pegasus Lounge partnered with Tanqueray Gin which launched it new flavour, Royal. Patrons enjoyed variety of food and variety of delicious cocktails. Throught the day Tanqueray demonstrated what it means to elevate to magnificence by offering guests a variety of delicious cocktails, stunning aesthetics for picture opportunities.  Nontando Khubisa Brand Manager - gin at Diageo Tanqueray exists to infuse a bit of magnificence in everyday life. The brand also hosted several brand influencers including Sibahle Sithole, Tino Chinyani, Pamela Mtanga, Mbali Sebapu and Themba Gwejela who were all dressed in Tanqueray Blackcurrant Royale inspired outfits SUNDAY TRIBUNE