Durban — A video of a man who appeared to have been intoxicated has gone viral after he was recorded climbing onto the bonnet of a moving car and then smashing its windscreen. The man literally stopped traffic with his antics on a busy New Germany road in a video that is believed to have been recorded this week. The incident took place on Chelsea Avenue, a road which is lined with an industrial park on one side and a shopping complex on the other. The complex also has a number of alcohol stores and taverns, as well as a large alcohol distribution store. Throughout the video, a woman believed to be the videographer is heard crying out in shock. In the 18-second video, the pedestrian seems to try and stop a Hyundai sedan with his right back foot. He then lands in the bonnet and slips off. The man is then seen jumping onto the vehicle and lands as high up as the windscreen. The motorist then tries to shake him off but fails as the man holds on to the doors as the windows are open. When the vehicle stops, the man stands up, jumps on the vehicle and then stomps the windscreen with his right foot, smashing it. He gets off the car, faces it, stomps towards it and then bows his head with his hands together. In another video, the man is handcuffed on the side of the road. He is speaking in isiZulu and although mostly inaudible, he can be heard saying something about Toyota in Hillcrest. He also mentions God’s work. Later, using vulgar language, he seems to tell the police to uncuff him. Commenting on the incident, Julie Newman de Croes said she saw the same man on Monday walking in the middle of the road near Westmead. A police van was following him. Angela McGarry Vermaak said the man needed to be locked up for good. He was a menace to society. Loraine van Staden said: “We are going to have such a huge societal problem if we can’t find a way to stop people (from) using these drugs…I am not sure how… but I think we really need to acknowledge mental health issues need to be addressed earlier… with more funding and research.” Police have been approached for comment. Daily News