DURBAN – Zululand is set to be the epicentre of activity as the Prince Mangosuthu Legacy Cup returns after four years later this month, following its launch in Durban on Wednesday. The tournament serves to honour IFP president emeritus Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi for his leadership role. The Legacy Cup will take place at Prince Mangosuthu Stadium in Ulundi on July 23. The event was last held in 2018, due to the Covid-19 pandemic that forced the break. Zululand District mayor Thulasizwe Buthelezi said the Legacy Cup would go a long way in developing and boosting the economy, enhance social cohesion and promoting tourism and investment of the Zululand area. “This Legacy Cup celebrates the legacy of our leader, a South African statesman, and our global icon for the work that he has done in developing the communities in KwaZulu-Natal and democracy in the country.” Mayor Buthelezi added that this tournament not only honours the legacy of a leader but it will also showcase local talent, boost the local economy, promote Zululand tourism and kickstart all our sports activities for the year. The teams playing in The Legacy Cup as revealed by mayor Buthelezi are Mamelodi Sundowns FC; AmaZulu FC; Richards Bay FC; and the Zululand Eleven team. Manqoba Mngqithi, the coach of reigning PSL champions Mamelodi Sundowns, said they would not take a tournament of this magnitude for granted. “Our wish as current holders of the Cup is to play two matches, and we will do our level best in honouring this tournament.” Philani Mabaso, who is the tournament director, reiterated that they would ensure that the tournament meets the standard of the PSL. “Tickets will be available from this Friday at Ticket-Pro at R20.” The Legacy Cup was first staged in 2017 and is the brainchild of Premier Soccer League Club, Amazulu. The Durban-based club wanted to honour the legacy of Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi.  The build-up will start on Thursday, July 21 with the Amahubo Symposium, coaching clinics on the Friday, and activities around Zululand. Zululand District Municipality thanked all the mayors, soccer associations, media houses, soccer legends and coaches for their participation thus far. “We look forward to the culmination of the final games later this month,” it said. THE MERCURY