Durban - If DA councillor Mzamo Billy wins the contest to be elected as caucus party leader in eThekwini, one of his objectives will be to form a working relationship with the other parties in the council to “save the little that is left” of the city. This declaration is contained in Billy’s letter accepting the nomination to contest the position seen by The Mercury. Billy said he was aware that he had been nominated for the position but declined to comment saying he will wait for his party to reveal the nomination list. The party is expected to announce those who will be contesting on Monday. The position of caucus leader became vacant following the departure of councillor Nicole Graham. Graham leaves eThekwini Council at the end of this month and will be relocating to Australia to further her studies. In the letter, Billy said following engagements with many of his colleagues in the caucus, “I am honoured and humbled to confirm to you that yes indeed I have accepted the nomination for the crucial position of the DA eThekwini Caucus leader. “I am overwhelmed by the amount of trust and confidence that many of our colleagues continue to show in me now and during my time as deputy and acting caucus leader, the words of encouragement and some tough and honest advice I treasure immensely,” it said. The letter says, in the coming days, Billy will be meeting with the caucus members to share with them his vision for the caucus, their role in the council and to also listen to the members’ views. “I must put this forward,” he says in the letter, “this election is not just about winning our caucus leader position, it is also about winning the trust of the like minded opposition parties no matter how small or big they are “It is about providing much needed leadership so that we can urgently work together to save the little that is left of the city. “We must put people first, that’s an unavoidable responsibility, we must get the basic right so that we can build a truly strong and efficient team that will carry out its core functions of servicing the residents of the city without hindrances or frustrations,” reads the letter. THE MERCURY