Durban - Sisters who have been separated for 15 years have been reunited under the roof of a Montclair old-age home and they plan to shower each other with love throughout the remainder of their days. Evelyn Schnetler, 70, and Johanna Campbell, 79, fondly known as Aunty Evelyn and Aunty Johanna, said the lack of finances kept the distance between them, but now that they were sharing a bedroom at the Elders Voice KZN, they would be making up for lost time.  The sisters grew up in Calitzdorp, a town on the western side of the Little or Klein Karoo in the Western Cape, with six other siblings. Although plagued by poverty, they both agreed that they had a good childhood within a close-knit family. As they grew older, Schnetler moved to Port Elizabeth, where she worked as a registered nurse and a midwife. She got married and had three sons, but only two are still alive and both continue to live in Port Elizabeth. Campbell travelled a long distance and settled in KwaZulu-Natal, where she had six children. For many years the sisters kept in touch, but it was not as frequent as they liked.  The visits were far and few between, but that eventually ended due to financial constraints. “Even if we wanted to visit each other, both our accommodation was not suitable to have each other’s families over, so we could never visit,” said Campbell. “Finances played a big role in keeping us apart.” Campbell moved to the old-age home to seek companionship years after her husband had died. Realising a golden opportunity, she spoke to her sister about the Elders Voice and convinced her to move to KZN.  To keep their bond and to ensure they spend as much time together as possible, the sisters were placed in the same room and they plan to stay together until their last days. “We realise that we do not have much left, but we now have each other and we would love to live out our years together,” said Campbell.  “My sister is my family and being there for each other is the meaning of love.” Joanne Herbst, Elders Voice KZN founder, said the sisters were over the moon and the reunion could not have come at a better time.  “Aunty Evelyn tends to look out for her sister, which is nice. I noticed that when Aunty Johanna gets up to go to the toilet, it’s not long thereafter that I see Aunty Evelyn following to check up on her,” she said. SUNDAY TRIBUNE