Durban - Suspended ANC member Carl Niehaus says the campaign to have President Cyril Ramaphosa removed from office is gaining momentum, with many party members joining calls for his sacking. He was speaking following the march by dozens of ANC members to the Hawks headquarters in Durban yesterday to call for Ramaphosa to be removed. Ramaphosa has come under severe pressure after former spy boss Arthur Fraser laid criminal charges against him for not reporting a theft of $4 million from the Phala Phala farm in February 2020 and allegedly trying to cover it up. The march coincided with ANC eThekwini regional chairperson Zandile Gumede’s appearance at the Durban High Court yesterday. Niehaus said they were getting invites from other provinces to hold similar marches, and he was certain that by month-end the campaign would generate massive support. “Our aim is to have one mass march in Pretoria to the Union Buildings demanding Ramaphosa’s resignation. We want to do this within three weeks,” he told The Mercury yesterday. He added that the movement was not only limited to ANC members, but also involved civil society structures in different parts of the country.  “We are engaging churches, community organisations and other structures and have just received an invite from Mpumalanga province to lead a similar march,” Niehaus continued. He said while there were challenges in organising the protests owing to the country’s financial crisis, they were encouraged by how organisers had managed the entire process. According Niehaus, an 18-member committee has been set up to drive the campaign. Another ANC activist, Nkosentsha Shezi, who was part of the march, said the movement was based on the principle of equality before the law, and not their dislike of president Ramaphosa. The march in Durban comes after a similar one was hosted by Niehaus, Shezi and former North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo in Johannesburg, Gauteng, on Friday. The ANC members marched to Luthuli House.  THE MERCURY