Durban — KwaZulu-Natal police are asking for assistance in locating suspects wanted for murder, car-jacking, attempted murder and robbery. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said that in the first incident, on August 25, 2019, at 8.35pm, Sipho Gcaba, 40, was visiting a friend at Sakhile Location when he was approached by three armed males who demanded his car keys. “Gcaba refused and was stabbed on the chest and collapsed. The suspects took the vehicle and drove away in an unknown direction. Gcaba was rushed to hospital where he succumbed to his injuries on arrival. The vehicle was later found abandoned in the Melmoth area,” Gcaba said. She said the matter was reported to the Nkandla police station and charges of car-jacking and murder were opened for investigation. “An intensive investigation led to the arrest of Sibonangaye Shavn Hlophe, 20, Khayelihle Thabiso, 23, and Bongani Griffiths Ngobeni, 28, who appeared in the Nkandla Magistrate’s Court on October 21, 2021. They were granted bail of R5 000 each and the case was remanded to November 5, 2021,” Gwala said. “Hlophe and Ngobeni, of the Zwelisha area in Verulam, absconded their bail and have been on the run. The Nkandla Magistrate’s Court has issued a warrant for their arrests.” Gwala said that in another incident, a wanted suspect on the run is Khayelihle Maxwell Zuke, 49, who was granted bail of R7 500 by the Nkandla Magistrate’s Court for two counts of murder, attempted murder and robbery. “Zuke was arrested with his eleven co-accused who were remanded in custody. The court granted Zuke bail however his co-accused were denied bail. The Nkandla Magistrate’s Court has issued a warrant of his arrest since he failed to attend court proceedings,” Gwala said. She said it is alleged that on August 9, 2021, at 1am, police received information about the suspects planning to commit robbery at a business premises in Nkandla. The police wasted no time and proceeded to the scene where they saw three vehicles with 15 passengers. “When the suspects spotted the police vehicles they opened fire and the police returned fire, fatally wounding two suspects.  “The remaining suspects attempted to flee the scene but lost control of their vehicles and were arrested. The vehicles were searched and four unlicensed firearms and explosives were recovered.  “They were arrested and charged accordingly,” Gwala said. We appeal to anyone who may have information regarding the suspect to contact investigating officer Sergeant Ndlela on 072 228 7582 / 082 557 5507/ 035 833 0053 or Crime Stop on 08600 10111, Gwala said. Daily News