Durban — Isipingo residents and workers are breathing a sigh of relief after a suspected criminal was allegedly run over by a vehicle while fleeing a robbery scene, south of Durban, on Tuesday. The incident happened on Phila Ndwandwe Road in Isipingo. According to private security company PT Alarms it is alleged that two suspects, carrying knives, held up a worker making his way to his place of employment. In their haste to flee, they were allegedly rammed by a “speeding” vehicle. PT Alarms stated that one suspect died at the scene and the second suspect sustained injuries and was reportedly transported by an unknown private vehicle, according to bystanders. The vehicle involved in the collision drove off. KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Constable Thenjiswa Ngcobo said at 7.30am an unknown man, believed to be in his twenties, was on the road when he was “knocked” by a vehicle. He sustained injuries and was confirmed dead at the scene. The driver apparently fled the scene. At the time of publication was unclear if the driver reported the collision to a police station. A case of culpable homicide was opened at Isipingo police station. Reacting to the incident on Facebook, Shadrick Kuppusamy said: “Two years ago I got robbed by 10 men at Isipingo and I never set foot again in that area. Glad the driver picked this up and decided to do this or else an innocent citizen's life would have been taken by them.” Njabzin Njabs said: “That driver did the Lord's work, and did not even stay around to be praised. What a humble soul.” Mark Stephens said: “It is dangerous. My drivers leave their valuables at home and travel with minimum possessions to the train station or taxi rank or bus stop. “Even walking over the footbridge from Isipingo to Prospecton is dangerous. I was alerted to this when it was 5.30am. I could not get hold of my driver for an early morning trip. He did arrive at work but says he left his mobile at home because he feared he would be robbed in the early morning.” Daily News