Durban - The National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) recently awarded its  volunteers and Good Samaritans for their bravery and service. The NSRI held its 55th Annual Awards Evening at ﻿﻿the Premier Resort - The Moorings in Knysna on Friday. “We celebrated our dedicated volunteers and other individuals who risk their lives to save the lives of others on South African waters,” the NSRI said in a statement on its website. It said during the period 1st January 2021 to 31st December 2021, the NSRI conducted 1025 rescue operations and rescued 960 people and 41 animals. Among those who were awarded for their service were the NSRI stations in KwaZulu-Natal, which helped rescue flood victims during the April floods that caused massive devastation across several areas. Station 5 Durban, Station 20 Shelly Beach, Station 32 Port Edward,  Station 39 Rocky Bay and Station 41 Ballito received Meritorious Service Awards for their “prompt and effective action taken by members of the station to assist, along with the national and local emergency services, in multiple flood-related incidents”. A Bravery Bronze award was bestowed on Jurgens Lubbe for his “brave actions on Saturday 9th October 2021 in saving four lives at Cape Vidal Bay, St Lucia KZN”.   In a statement about that incident, the NSRI said Lubbe, was kiteboarding in the area, when he noticed an upturned boat with two men clinging onto the upturned hull and a male and female in the water nearby. “Jurgens kite boarded towards them and, on reaching them, he was able to pull the girl to the shore where NSRI members and public members took her from him.” He then volunteered to kiteboard back out to assist and NSRI rescue swimmers handed him an NSRI pink rescue buoy and the girl’s life jacket. Jurgens reached the men in the water and gave the life jacket to one man and the pink buoy to the younger man - as aids to stay afloat. The younger man was also able to swim towards the rocks while Lubbe pulled the other man towards the rocks. Both were assisted by NSRI rescue swimmers and members of the public. Lubbe also then pulled the skipper from the backline towards rocks, where an NSRI rescue swimmer assisted. Lubbe, who owns a rafting company in Hazyview, said that the wind speed lasted just long enough for him to assist in the rescue. A Meritorious Service Award was also bestowed on Station 40 St Lucia for the mass rescue of 20 kayakers in rough surf conditions at Cape Vidal Bay on October 23 last year. THE MERCURY