Durban — Little Zenande “Mama” Ndlela would have been excited to celebrate her birthday in three weeks’ time had her life not been taken by Njabulo Ndlovu. Her grandmother, Zanele, and her mother, Simangele, were also killed by Ndlovu in their Sobantu home. Thandeka Dube, Zanele’s younger sister, said the family felt that justice had been served, adding as a murderer Ndlovu was handed a sentence in line with his actions. He was handed five life sentences in the Pietermaritzburg High Court on Thursday. “We are pleased with the sentence even though it will not bring them back. We are heartbroken and torn by what he did, especially over Zenande. We wish that he spends no more than five years alive in prison, we hope he dies slowly and painfully,” she said. Dube described the little girl as helpful and always wanting to have an input in everything they did. “She had a special name she had given me which was Debbie. Losing all of them has really affected us. Zanele ‘Gogo’ whenever I was visiting would walk me to the taxis when I was leaving making sure that I get on safely.” Dube said when she would sleep over in Sobantu she would cradle Zenande on her lap till she fell asleep at night and carry her to bed, adding that she did the same when she visited her in France. “Simangele was a bubbly person who loved jokes, everyone loved her; she had many friends. The family and the community have all been affected. My thoughts throughout were that I wished that the death penalty would be reinstated and start with Njabulo. He must not even get parole,” she said. Dube said that other communities needed to be cautious of those who were like Ndlovu living among them. Communities should quickly identify such people, she said. “When a new person arrives in an area, ask what led them to move, find out if they are not running from committed offences from where they come from.” Dube said while they accepted Ndlovu’s guilty plea they were not satisfied with the version of events that he had said transpired. “When he says he killed Zanele first, he is lying. He killed Zanele in the morning because that morning before she was killed she was seen going to the tap outside. “If he says he killed Zanele first and then Simangele woke up, he means that while he was killing Zanele Simangele was asleep through the whole thing. He’s lying; he killed Simangele first then Zanele and the child last. Why kill them because he wanted sex with Simangele, why kill her?” Dube said Ndlovu could have pushed Zanele aside and left when she told him to leave. Thokozani Ngubane, Simangele’s cousin, said that the family were aware of other cases that Ndlovu had allegedly been involved in that were not mentioned in court. “These are other people he killed but this was not said in court because they said there was no evidence. We are grateful that the law has run its course, we also thank the community for support and unity when such things happen.  “We did not know this man who arrived to live in Sobantu was a serial killer, we found out later that he was a bad person who had relocated from Durban.  “He killed and buried someone but that was not said in court because there was no evidence. We also thank the investigating officer Mkhize from Mountain Rise for the speedy way the case was handled.” Daily News