Durban - After an intensive investigation, the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks) has arrested a 24-year-old suspect for the fatal shooting of an off-duty police officer in her home in Umzimkhulu, KwaZulu-Natal. In a statement on Tuesday, Hawks spokesperson Captain Simphiwe Mhlongo said an intensive investigation led to the arrest of the suspect at Emhlabeni ward, Ibisi. Mhlongo said the suspect was arrested on Monday by Hawks members from Port Shepstone Serious Organised Crime Investigation, Tactical Response Team and Umzimkhulu and Ibisi police stations. He said the 24-year-old suspect allegedly murdered Sergeant Nokuthula Somani who was off duty during the incident. The 55-year-old police officer was stationed at Umzimkhulu police station, he said. “It is alleged that she was sitting in the lounge at her Umzimkhulu home when two suspects entered the house and shot her multiple times,” said Mhlongo. Mhlongo said the suspects fled and Somani was declared dead at the scene. “A case of murder was reported at Ibisi police station and the case docket was allocated to Hawks members for thorough investigation,” he said. Mhlongo said the suspect is expected to appear in the Umzimkhulu Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday, July 13, 2022. According to the Hawks, more arrests are imminent. Meanwhile, in a separate matter, the Ntuzuma Regional Court last week sentenced Nkosinathi Mthoko Hlongwane, 28, and his co-accused Nkosinathi Fikani Khumalo, 24, to two terms of life imprisonment each for their role in the murder of two people. In a statement on Tuesday, provincial police spokesperson Constable Thenjiswa Ngcobo said Hlongwane was further sentenced to 10 years imprisonment for unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition. “On February 16, 2020 at 2.15pm, two brothers Mjabuliseni, 44, and Joseph Mpungose, 55, were sitting next to their house on Phumula Road at a men's hostel in KwaMashu when they were accosted by four males. The suspects opened fire, fatally wounding the siblings,” she said. Ngcobo said charges of murder were opened at KwaMashu police station for investigation. “The team of dedicated detectives followed up on information which led to the arrest of the two accused,” she said. Ngcobo said one of the accused was in unlawful possession of a firearm and added that both accused made several court appearances until they were sentenced. THE MERCURY