Durban - The family of Cherwin Mark Naidoo are seeking answers after he allegedly committed suicide in a holding cell at the Durban Magistrate's Court. Naidoo, 31, from Bonela, was due to make his second appearance in court last Wednesday after being arrested and charged with theft for stealing a car battery. Cindy Pillay, his stepsister, said he was caught by community members stealing the battery from a vehicle a road away from their home. Pillay said he was charged with theft and appeared in court on July 13. The case was adjourned to July 20 for a bail application. "Cherwin was being held at the Westville Prison. Some of our relatives went to court on July 20 for the case but when they tried to find out how Cherwin was doing or at what time his matter was going to be heard, nobody in court could tell them anything. Our relatives eventually left to go home." She said later that evening the investigating officer arrived at her home and informed her that Naidoo had died. "I was told he used a string from his pants to hang himself in the court holding cells. I could not believe what I was being told. I questioned him and asked how could this happen. He did not have many answers for me." Pillay said she believed Naidoo's death could have been avoided. "Where were the police officers that were tasked with guarding prisoners? Why did it take them so long to realise that Cherwin had hanged himself? Someone messed up and we need answers so we can have closure." She said Naidoo was adopted by her mother, Selvie Pillay, when he was four months old. "My mother passed on in October last year. She took Cherwin in when he was just a baby. She treated him like her son and they shared a close bond. Cherwin was addicted to the drug sugars. My mother tried to get him help. After her death, his addiction grew. We prayed for him to turn his life around. He was a caring person and he loved his family." Naidoo was cremated at the Clare Estate Crematorium on Sunday. Preggy Govender, the chairman of the Bonela community policing forum (CPF), said he was at the scene when Naidoo was arrested. "I was called in because of my role as the chairman of the CPF. When I heard about Cherwin's passing, I also helped raise money for his funeral. I knew him for about seven years. He was a lovely boy. He worked hard by doing odd jobs. Drugs and crime were a concern.” Natasha Ramkisson-Kara, the spokesperson for National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) in KZN, referred POST to the Department of Justice and Constitutional Development because the court building belonged to them. Steve Mahlangu, the spokesperson for the department, said: "The department can confirm that a 31-year-old male suspect, who was appearing in D Court on charges of theft, has passed away following a suspected suicide at the Durban Magistrate’s Court holding cells on July 20, 2022.  “Investigations are currently underway by the police to determine what transpired, but information at our disposal suggests that the suspect hanged himself in the holding cells. Further details will emerge as the investigation into the matter takes shape." The police did not comment at the time of publication.   THE POST