Empangeni - Richards Bay residents were treated to a show in an exercise called ‘Exercise Shared Accord 2022’, where the US Army and the South African National Defence Force (SANDF), joined forces to demonstrate how they will work.  The activities also saw an involvement of other law enforcement agencies including South African Police Service and the Road Traffic Police. Taking place at Richards Bay High School on Wednesday, many people gathered to witness the entertaining demonstration of joint army explosives and combat.  The exercise wrapped up on a high note with the simulated attack on “Richards Bay naval island”, which was actually the Richards Bay High School sport grounds.  The scene was set for a clash between South African and United States troops on one side and an opposing force on the other. Throughout the readiness training, the naval island served as the simulation’s opposing force base of operations.  The objective on the day was for the joint South African and the United States forces to conduct an attack on the opposing the force on the island. This was done to exercise force projection, tactical manoeuvering and command and control (C2), with accompanying medical support. Simulated explosions were also set off during the firefight, with thunder flashes that created red, yellow and green clouds from smoke grenades. The final phase of the exercise included the disarming of captured personnel, treatment of the injured and the management of mortal remains. When a safe perimeter was established, the South African Medical Health Service (SAMHS) personnel and the New York Army National Guard personnel, assessed the casualties on the ground. Under the ‘Shared Accord’ umbrella, they performed various exercises, which included the medical readiness exercise (MEDREX), exercises where military police from both countries trained together and also a ‘field training exercise’, where the US infantry battalions trained with the SANDF battalions. The demonstration marked the end of US army’s month-long tour to South Africa. They were expected to leave the country on Friday.  SUNDAY TRIBUNE