Durban - The KwaZulu-Natal International Business Association (Kiba) has bestowed honours on individuals who have made a mark in the business fraternity and made a positive impact to society. Kiba hosted its 2022 Business Networking Dinner at the recently opened Radisson Blu Hotel uMhlanga. Over 350 businesspeople from across the country gathered for the event which was aimed at business networking and honouring those who have made a contribution to the upliftment of society. Among the guest speakers were Professor Rajen Pillay of Garuda Capital (PTY) LTD, Neville Matjie, CEO of Trade & Investment KZN, and Lavan Gopaul, director at Merchant Afrika, a private equity firm. They were all presented with recognition awards for their contribution to their respective fields. Other special recognition awardees of the night included Vivian Reddy of Radisson Blu Hotel, who was awarded for his outstanding contribution to tourism and job creation. Dr Imtiaz Sooliman of Gift of the Givers received the special recognition award for his outstanding service to humanity. President of Kiba, Omie Singh, said the organisation decided to host the event in an effort to recognise businesspeople who have helped build the economy and create jobs. “We wanted to start this at home, in KZN, and take it further. Each one of the awardees have contributed to society and especially in KZN. Their efforts have been recognised,” said Singh. Ricky Naidoo of Venk PAC was awarded for his service to humanity through KZN flood relief projects, while Ashok Sewnarain of IBV International Bank Vaults was awarded for outstanding service to humanity and philanthropy. Pria Hassan, CEO of Women of Africa (WOA) Fuels and Oils, received the Top Woman Empowerment Award for her outstanding contribution to women empowerment. Ishwar Ramlutchman Mabheka Zulu was awarded for nation-building. Sulosh Pillay of ACT Foundation and Daughters of Africa received the special recognition award for outstanding service to humanity. Abed Mohammed Karrim of the Al-Imdaad Foundation was awarded for outstanding service to humanity. Nanda Soobben, founder of the Centre for Fine Art Animation and Design received the special recognition award for his outstanding contribution to the arts, animation and design field in the country. Sharon Lutchanna received the special recognition award for her dedication, loyalty, and outstanding voluntary secretarial duties to Kiba. SUNDAY TRIBUNE