As we enter the second week of the June school holidays, here are some ideas to keep the kids entertained. A TRAIN TRIP FOR A GOOD CAUSE The Umgeni Steam Railway will host a fundraising open day at Inchanga Station on July 10. The railway was devastated by the April floods. The open day will feature mini steam train trips, a craft and food market and lots of train-themed attractions. *Wesley, the refurbished vintage steam locomotive, will be doing regular short trips. One can buy a single ticket, or day pass which allows for multiple trips. Wesley will be doing trips hourly from 9am until 2pm. *The Inchanga Craft Market with dozens of stalls offers family-friendly locally-sourced fare including gift ideas; bespoke wooden toys and décor; home-made delicacies; plants; books; honey; dolls clothes, toys and games and more. The market will operate from 8am until 3pm. *The Inchanga Railway Museum will be open for tours; and the model railway, Thomas & Friends, will be operational in the Modeller’s hut. Tours will be offered through the shed to see the 110 year old steam locomotive, Maureen, under repairs and the vintage coaches. *There is also a tea garden offering a range of light meals and snacks, a play area and picnic site. The recent flooding left the Old Main Line between Kloof and Inchanga damaged, undermining the train tracks and causing R2 million worth of damage – suspending the usual Umgeni Steam Railway trips for the foreseeable future. The Umgeni Steam Railway is a non-profit company run by volunteers who maintain and operate the trains, the tracks, museum, library and archives. The organisation is dedicated to preserving the heritage of railways in South Africa. Funds raised will help pay for track refurbishments. There is safe parking on site. Entry is R50 per person for one steam train ride in a vintage carriage, and R150 for multiple rides. Entry ticket allows access to the Inchanga Station Craft Market. Tickets available at Inchanga Station – no pre-booking required. Trains depart Inchanga Station at 9am, 10am, 11am, 12pm, 1pm and 2pm. For more information visit their Facebook page. Enquiries: 082 353 6003. OUTDOOR THEATRE In association with the Durban Botanic Gardens Trust, Kickstart Theatre presents Little Red Rides Again! (The further tales of Little Red Riding Hood). Shows take place from until July 17 at the Durban Botanic Gardens Amphitheatre. Not long after the story we all know, Little Red Riding Hood returns to granny’s cottage in the woods for a sleepover. But their evening of baking and bed-time stories is soon interrupted by an unwelcome knock at the door from a furry paw … Another wolf is on the prowl, and Little Red and granny must use all their wits and ingenuity to keep him out … or be gobbled up for dinner! Starring Bryan Hiles, Belinda Henwood and Cara Roberts, the show features comedic highlights including booby-traps, pranks and pratfalls abound, as Little Red and granny teach the Big Bad Wolf a serious lesson about bullying, and unexpectedly, learn a thing or two themselves. Tickets are R150 for adults and R120 for children (0-12) and pensioners. Show times are 11am, and matinees at 2.30pm on certain days. Tickets and full schedule of shows via Webtickets. Venue will open one hour prior to performance. Bring-your-own picnics. AT THE MOVIES Minions: The Rise of Gru opened at cinemas last week. Just like every good super hero deserves an origin story, so too do our favourite villains. Finally, we get to see where and how it all began for Gru in this snapshot of his journey to villaindom. It all starts at age of 11 and three quarters for young Gru, who's just a boy plotting to take over the world from his basement at home. His schemes aren't quite panning out, until he crosses paths with the minions. From designing their first lair and weapons, to executing their first missions, the journey is loaded with laughs and moments that will tug at the heart strings. And it turns out Gru is a fanboy himself! But his efforts to impress infamous supervillain supergroup, the Vicious 6, lands him in hot water and on the run. Just in time for the school holidays, this adventure is a treat for the young and the young at heart. And for fans: a not-to-be-missed piece of the Minnionverse puzzle. SHONGWENI MARKET RE-OPENS The Shongweni Farmers and Craft Market has re-opened after not operating since the April floods. The market has a new time slot of Saturday’s 7am until 1pm, with an extra market day on the last Sunday of each month from 8am until noon, starting from July 31. POST