Durban - The KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Transport Community Safety and Liaison Peggy Nkonyeni is leading the memorial service of the 12 victims who died in the R617 road accident near Pietermaritzburg.  This is Nkonyeni’s first time back at a public event since she was injured and hospitalised after a crash in June. The vehicle Nkonyeni was travelling in was involved in an accident after a tyre burst on the R66 near Ulundi. The MEC was travelling from her engagement with the premier and Zulu King Misuzulu kaZwelithini, to her next engagement at the Dannhauser Local Municipality, where she was going to launch a youth economic empowerment programme when the accident happened. KZN Department of Transport spokesperson Kwanele Ncalane says the MEC is fine and fully recovered and back at work.  “This is the first public engagement. However, she did attend the Nelson Mandela Day programme.  “The MEC is fine and fully recovered and back at work. Today, she is accompanying the families of the 12 victims in the Mpophomeni accident. The MEC believes that, as a province, we need a take a pause and introspect in light of the spate of accidents. Twenty-four people died in the past weekend, and 10 died last night between Nquthu and Babanango,” said Ncalane. The other victims of the R617 accident were Sergeant Sizwe Madondo and two security guards from Mpophomeni. Preliminary reports revealed that a minibus taxi was travelling from a function in Impendle to their place of residence at uMlazi when they met this fatal accident. A total of 10 people died on the scene, and two people later died in hospital, including the 37-year-old police officer, Sergeant Madondo, who was stationed at Mpophomeni Police station. The Department of Transport says a separate memorial service for the other three victims, including Sergeant Madondo, will be held at Mpophomeni Community Hall simultaneously with the one in uMlazi. MEC Nkonyeni will be accompanied by members of the portfolio committee, traditional leaders, members of the interfaith and other political leaders.  THE MERCURY