Durban - The number of unqualified Grade R teachers in the province has grown more than 10 times in the past two years. This is according to parliamentary questions to the Department of Education in KwaZulu-Natal. In 2020, there were about 250 unqualified teachers in the province, but this figure has grown to 2 810 in 2022. Zululand has more unqualified teachers than any other region in KZN with 357, followed by King Cetshwayo with 325, uThukela 281, uMgungundlovu 270 and Pinetown 267. The parliamentary responses showed that the department was assisting these teachers to obtain their qualifications. The department said it was providing bursaries to the teachers to get their qualifications within the next five years. If the qualification was not obtained within this period, the teachers would be replaced with qualified teachers. DA spokesperson on education Dr Imran Keeka described the findings as shocking, saying it showed that young pupils were being failed by the department. The party had submitted the questions. “The idea behind incorporating Early Childhood Development (ECD) into Education was to remedy the dismal educational outcomes of our pupils. Yet, here we have unqualified teachers occupying a critical area of the education cycle.” He said in spite of a 2020 commitment by KZN Education MEC Kwazi Mshengu to rid his department of unqualified teachers, two years later the number in the province’s classrooms had spiked by more than tenfold. “One of the excuses offered by the Department of Education (DoE) for this debacle is that the current unqualified educators are only in Grade R.” He said this was unacceptable: “Grade R remains significant as part of the overall education process and while one of the biggest problems within the Foundation Phase is the inability to read with meaning and the lack of basics when it comes to subjects such as maths. While these are not taught in Grade R, the year forms the basis for developing cognitive skills for the academic years that follow. “Then there is the question why unqualified Grade R teachers are being employed when there is no shortage of qualified teachers sitting at home. That the DoE has opted to keep unqualified individuals on its payroll, while qualified teachers struggle with unemployment after years of study and debt is beyond comprehension,” said Keeka. Department spokesperson Muzi Mahlambi said the department was addressing the issue. He said Grade R teachers were employed with matric and some had been improving themselves, now they were qualified and were even absorbed in the other grades in the mainstream. “Others have been given time to improve themselves because our definition of the qualified educator is a three-year diploma and above. This is why the Grade R educators are called practitioners and earn a stipend, not a salary. This is not peculiar to KZN. “Also, unqualified does not mean matric necessarily, it could mean that the person has a degree in something, say accounting or psychology but is not a qualified teacher,” he said. THE MERCURY