Durban - Pietermaritzburg police and a private security company arrested a man in Thembelihle area on Monday night after he was found in possession of an unlicensed firearm. Mi7 National Group said that on Monday at around 9pm, members of its Strategic Threat Response Unit teamed up with Mountain Rise police officers to locate a suspect in possession of an unlicensed firearm after the police received information regarding the man’s whereabouts.  “Their search led them to the Thembelihle area, where the suspect was asleep in his residence.” The teams “tactically” entered the property and the suspect then drew his firearm from underneath the pillow.  “He was quickly disarmed but resisted arrest, attempting to physically assault officers on scene.The suspect was eventually subdued. It was found that the firearm did not contain ammunition, but was stolen from a security company in the Durban area.The suspect was arrested and the matter is currently under investigation.” Provincial police spokesperson Constable Thenjiswa Ngcobo confirmed that the 27-year-old suspect was arrested and was expected to appear on Tuesday in the Pietermaritzburg Magistrate’s Court. Meanwhile, Mi7 said that in a separate incident on Monday morning a suspect was arrested for theft in Raisethorpe. “It is believed the suspect stole a handbag from a vehicle parked outside a local shop and attempted to flee when vigilant community members caught him. Mi7 Armed Response units were immediately dispatched to assist, and secured the scene. The suspect was taken to the police station where the matter was handed over for further investigation. “ In yet another incident on Monday night, a hijacked motorcycle was recovered.  Mi7 said that the armed response members received a request from a local vehicle tracking company needing help to recover a hijacked motorcycle.  “Mi7 Strategic Threat Response Unit members, along with members of the tracking company, proceeded to the vehicle's location.The bike was successfully recovered in the Edendale area where it was found abandoned. The matter was handed over to the police for further investigation.” THE MERCURY