Durban — The South African National Roads Agency SOC Limited (Sanral) has encountered rock outcrops in the vicinity of 22.3 km  near the Camperdown Overpass Bridge during its N3 upgrade from Cato Ridge interchange to Dardanelles, which will have to be removed through blasting to allow for the construction of the stormwater system and the pavement layers. “Rolling closures will be implemented on the N3 national roads in both directions between Umlaas Road Interchange and Cato Ridge Interchange to minimise the delay of the traffic on the N3 national road during blasting,” Sanral said in a statement. “Temporary road closures in the vicinity of the Overpass Bridge will be erected on the R103 and on the on-ramps at Cato Ridge Interchange, and Camperdown Interchange will be temporarily closed during the blast. The road closures would not delay public traffic for more than 10 minutes.” Sanral said the blasting would be carried out on Tuesday, July 12, 2022, at 11am and Thursday, July 14, 2022, at 11am, should a second blast be required. It said all closures would immediately be removed as soon as the site of blasting had been declared safe. “The speed limit along the route has been reduced to 80km/hr to improve safety for the construction team and road users. Lane closures, to permit construction vehicles from safely entering and exiting the work zone, can be expected at night, and the public will be informed in advance of such activity,” Sanral said. “Delays are expected as a result of the reduced speed limit. Motorists are advised to plan their trips carefully and be vigilant along the road during their travels.” Sanral said that construction for the upgrade of the N2 Section 2, from the Cato Ridge Interchange (km 20.2) to the northern end of the Dardanelles Cutting (km 26.6) on April 14, 2021. The project is in KwaZulu-Natal in the district municipality of uMgungundlovu and local municipalities of eThekwini and Mkhambathini. Sanral said it appointed Nyeleti Consulting as the consulting engineer for supervision of the works and Raubex Construction as the main contractor. The 48-month construction project will see the upgrade of the existing 6.4km four-lane dual carriageway widened to an eight-lane dual carriageway with outer shoulders and a median in between. A road-over rail bridge will be extended to accommodate the widening of the road. The upgrade will include lighting along the 6.4 km and the installation of culverts. The R103 provincial road, which runs next to the N3, will also be upgraded. A new section of R103 will be constructed alongside the N3 on the southern side between the Camperdown Interchange and the existing R103 overpass just south of the Camperdown Interchange. Daily News