Durban - Marshall Security was involved in the recovery of four vehicles hijacked in different areas around Durban in the span of two days last week, some just two hours apart. Tyron Powell, the managing director of Marshall Security, said the first hijacking occurred at around 4pm. Powell said the Emergency Dispatch Centre was alerted to an incident in the Windermere area on Adrain Road. A white Nissan Qashqai was hijacked by an unknown number of armed suspects. He said multiple armed response officers were dispatched to the scene to assist and the details of the hijacked vehicle were circulated to all members, with instructions to be on the lookout for it. “A few minutes later members of our Special Operations Team were activated to assist the Cartrack ground team and within eight minutes of being activated the hijacked vehicle was found abandoned, and was recovered, on Durrant Place in the Morningside area,” Powell said.   Under two hours later, Powell said while following up on information received, members of the Special Operations Team together with the SAPS Phoenix Trio Crimes Unit, managed to recover a white Toyota Hilux. Powell further explained that the vehicle had been hijacked approximately 50 minutes earlier in Kwamashu P-Section. “Our members immediately responded and located the vehicle in Kwamashu A-Section, where it was found abandoned and severely stripped,” he said.   Two hours later, at approximately 8pm, members of the Special Operations Team were activated to assist Cartrack locate a VW Polo, which had been hijacked in the Berea area, he said. Powell said members responded to its last known location and 25 minutes later the vehicle was recovered. “The vehicle was found abandoned on a sports field in the Ntuzuma E Section,” he said. He said the Cartrack ground team and the SAPS Vehicle and Trio Crimes Unit were also involved in the recovery of the VW Polo.   The fourth hijacking happened on Friday at around midnight. Powell said members of the Special Operations Team were activated to assist Tracker SA with the recovery of a white Toyota Etios. He said the vehicle had been hijacked in the Sea Cow Lake area, on Gum Tree Road, by an unknown number of armed suspects. “After an extensive track the vehicle was finally recovered nearly 11 hours later ... it was found abandoned in an informal settlement off Shellbrook Road in the Brookdale, Phoenix area by members of our Special Ops Team, Tracker SA ground team and the SAPS Phoenix Trio Crimes Unit,” Powell said.   Powell added that all four recovered vehicles were handed over to the SAPS for further investigation and processing. THE MERCURY