Durban - A 23-year-old man visiting Durban for a function was killed during a hijacking in the Geneva settlement in the Bhambayi area of Phoenix on Monday, while his stolen vehicle was discovered by a motorist in the centre median of the R102 in Verulam. Provincial police spokesperson Constable Thenjiswa Ngcobo said on Monday, Phoenix police responded to a complaint of a carjacking at the Geneva settlement in the Bhambayi area. Ngcobo said it was alleged that the victim was approached by three armed males who were travelling in a white vehicle and demanded his vehicle. “The victim refused and one of the suspects then shot him on the face. They took his vehicle and cellphone,” she said. Ngcobo said the 23-year-old victim from the Tembisa area in Gauteng, who was visiting the Bhambayi area for a function, was certified dead at the scene. “The vehicle of the deceased was recovered in the Verulam area by the investigating officer,” she said. Reaction Unit South Africa(Rusa) spokesperson Prem Balram, said a black Chevrolet Aveo, which is believed to belong to the deceased Gauteng hijacking victim, was recovered on the R102 in Verulam on Monday. Balram said Rusa received a call from a passing motorist who reported that an abandoned vehicle was stationary in the centre median, full of overgrown vegetation separating the north and south bound lanes. He said when reaction officers arrived at the scene, they discovered the keys in the ignition, while the battery and radio were missing. “The identity card of the owner and a payslip with his employer's details were also located in the vehicle,” said Balram. Balram said a registration check confirmed that the vehicle was sought after by police. Rusa officers made contact with the employer, a construction company in Pretoria Gardens in Pretoria, he said. He said according to the man’s colleagues, they had received information that he was shot dead. “They were unable to provide any further details. The vehicle was handed over to the Verulam SAPS for further investigation,” said Balram. Police said charges of murder and carjacking were opened at Phoenix police station for investigation.   THE MERCURY