Durban — A joint sting operation between the Mpumalanga and KwaZulu-Natal police netted seven suspects and recovered 60 cellphones suspected to have been stolen by robbers in Piet Retief, Mpumalanga. Mpumalanga police spokesperson Brigadier Selvy Mohlala said the joint sting operation was undertaken on Thursday. He said the suspects were aged between 19 and 35 and were arrested on charges of allegedly being found in possession of 60 mobile phones.  Mohlahla said according to information, there was a business robbery at a Boxer Supermarket in Piet Retief on Tuesday. In response to the robbery, a team was assembled to trace the suspects. Information regarding the whereabouts of the suspects was received and members of the team went to Richards Bay in KZN. “As a result, one suspect was apprehended in connection with the said robbery incident,” Mohlahla said. He said further details were obtained, leading to the arrest of an additional six suspects. “Among the suspects arrested, two are shop owners who were allegedly found with some of the suspected stolen cellphones on the shelves of their shops. They too were charged with possession of suspected stolen properties,” Mohlahla said. “The suspects could further be linked to other robbery incidents previously reported in various areas of the province or even somewhere else.” Mohlahla said that police could not rule out the possibility of adding more charges against the suspects as the investigation continued. “Preliminary investigation thus far has revealed that some of the items were robbed and stolen in Amsterdam, Paulpietersburg in KZN and Piet Retief,” Mohlahla said. He said the suspects were expected to appear in the Piet Retief Magistrate's Court on Monday. Mpumalanga police commissioner Lieutenant-General Semakaleng Daphney Manamela applauded the team for their relentless efforts in rooting out crime, thereby ensuring that perpetrators of crime are brought to book. “We are encouraged by the recovery of the suspected stolen items and the arrest of the suspects. We cannot allow a situation whereby a person operates a shop wherein alleged stolen items are sold. “That will have to be followed up and serious, drastic steps taken and if need be, such a shop should be closed after further engagement with relevant stakeholders. “South Africa is a country with laws and we can never allow any person to turn it into a banana republic under our watch. The public should now make sure they do not purchase stolen properties,” Manamela said. Daily News