Durban - The Premier of KwaZulu-Natal has been lambasted for not doing enough to complete forensic reports into allegations of corruption in the province. DA KZN leader Francois Rodgers received a written reply from the premier’s office regarding the matter. Rodgers said that during the Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) Standing Committee on Public Accounts (Scopa) follow-up briefing on March 2, 2022, concerns were raised around the length of time investigations are taking within its forensic investigation unit which is hindering the department's ability to conclude investigations. Rodgers asked how many investigations are currently being undertaken within the forensic investigation unit; when did these listed investigations commence; what is the current status of each investigation and where there have been lengthy delays in specific investigations and what is the reason for this? According to a response from the premier’s office, as of March 31, 2022, 85 investigations are in progress for departments. There are 39 long-standing matters for departments with allegations received before 2020. The parliamentary reply revealed that there were incomplete forensic audits into provincial government departments and officials, with some dating back as far as 2014. The information also reveals that KZN’s Department of Transport (DoT) has two audits that commenced eight years ago with a further two – begun six years ago – none of which had been concluded by the end of March. Rodgers said if KZN’s people ever needed further evidence that the ANC in KZN is not committed to rooting out corruption, then this was it. Rodgers said that in July 2020, Zikalala moved all forensic audits and anti-fraud and corruption services in the province away from the Provincial Treasury to the Office of the Premier (OTP). “This after the Treasury no longer had the capacity to fulfil this function. Despite this, there has been no progress in ridding our province of this scourge. These latest findings would also seem to support the perception that the decision to move forensic audits to the OTP is a politically-motivated plan aimed at protecting corrupt comrades,” Rodgers stated. Further issues raised within the reply include common reasons for lengthy delays. These include: - Capacity constraints - Complexity of the investigation - Investigation was divided into various allegations - Lack of cooperation from client departments - Non-availability of documents and difficulties in tracing witnesses - Poor quality of report from a service provider, and; - Delays with processing for outsourcing Rodgers said the DA has long maintained that this department is captured and a dumping ground for failed cadres. Rodgers claimed that not even Zikalala and his department seem willing or able to fast-track these investigations and ensure that they are completed timeously so that corrupt officials face the consequences for their actions. “Right now, the Premier’s response triggers more questions than answers,” he said. Rodgers said Zikalala needed to answer the following: • What are he and his department doing to address the above issues which are clearly hindering the process? • Have any officials been suspended or axed in the interim as a result of damning evidence? • If so, how long have they been on suspension and were they paid a salary during this period? • How many forensic investigations have been referred to the police for formal prosecution? Rodgers said he expected a reply and if it was not forthcoming he would refer the matter to the Public Protector for further investigation. Rodgers said the OTP should lead by example when it comes to accountability and transparency. “While the DA congratulates Zikalala’s department on its recent clean audit, this should also be the norm and not the exception. For as long as KZN’s ANC does not have the political will to deal with corruption, our province will never achieve the ideal of a capable and ethical state, and its people will continue to suffer,” he said. Daily News