Durban - Newly elected caucus leader for the DA in eThekwini, Thabani Mthethwa, says he will use the position to fight to improve the lives of the municipality’s residents. He was elected by the party’s councillors yesterday. He contested the position against councillors Mzamo Billy, Shontel de Boer and Sakhile Mngadi. He replaces Nicole Graham, who resigned last month to pursue her studies in Australia. She will leave the council and the country at the end of this month.  Graham said yesterday that she was delighted with Mthethwa’s appointment as caucus leader.  Mthethwa said that as part of holding the ANC accountable, he would harness the wide variety of skills in his caucus to make sure they were used optimally to serve the people of the city. “I am not leading alone in the DA; we have many skilled people, we will use those skills to improve the lives of eThekwini people. The DA in eThekwini is as strong as it has ever been and the DA caucus is diverse, with a wide range of skills.” Speaking on his leadership style, Mthethwa described himself as a person who listened to others and took their advice, but was also able to take his own decisions. “I would like to think of myself as a humble person who works well with others.” Mthethwa said his caucus was a diverse team of democrats who were ready to serve the people of eThekwini. “This is a responsibility that we do not take lightly, knowing the challenges that the people of eThekwini face on a daily basis. We are ready to be of service to the people of eThekwini to make sure they get the services they pay for and they deserve,” he said. Graham said she was thrilled with Mthethwa’s victory. “Mthethwa has been my closest confidant and trusted adviser throughout my term as leader. “He is incredibly mature and experienced. Previously, he served in the leadership of the NFP before coming to the DA, so he understands the complicated opposition environment we deal with in council. “He has a lot of experience in exco, which I think is the engine room of the council, and he has a fair and ethical way of dealing with people, which is required in the kind of work we do. I am confident in his abilities, I could not be happier,” said Graham. In a statement following the election, the party congratulated Mthethwa, saying he and his caucus should continue to hold the governing party accountable as well as placing the needs of residents first. “In time to come, the DA provincial executive committee will consider recommendations by the new caucus leader on their appointment of a chief whip.”