Durban — The Provincial Organised Crime Unit is investigating charges of murder and attempted murder after four people were shot dead and eight were left with gunshot wounds during a shooting at a tavern in Sweetwaters, Pietermaritzburg, on Saturday night. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said that the shooting took place at Samkelisiwe Tavern. “It is alleged that at 8.30pm on Saturday night, a group of people were having drinks at a tavern at Sweetwaters in Pietermaritzburg when a vehicle arrived and parked outside the tavern,” Gwala said. Two men alighted from the vehicle, entered the tavern and fired random shots at the patrons. Gwala said that a total of 12 people were shot. “Two people were declared dead at the scene and another two died in hospital. Another eight people are still in hospital after they sustained injuries,” Gwala said. “The deceased are aged between 30 and 45.” Gwala said the suspects fled the scene after the incident. “Charges of murder and attempted murder were opened for investigation at Plessislaer SAPS. “The docket has been transferred to the Provincial Organised Crime Unit which will take over the investigation,” Gwala said. Provincial police commissioner Lieutenant-General Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi deployed maximum resources following the shooting. Mkhwanazi condemned the shooting and deployed members of Crime Intelligence, forensic experts as well as a tactical unit to form part of an investigation team led by the Provincial Organised Crime Investigation Unit. “The team will be working around the clock to track down and bring to book those responsible for this shooting,” Mkhwanazi said. Police have appealed to anyone who may be able to assist with information which could assist police in the successful investigation of this case. People with information may contact Crime Stop on ‪08600 10111‬ or on MySAPS app, an application which can be downloaded on any Android or iPhone. Meanwhile, at least 14 patrons were shot dead in a tavern in Soweto and nine were left injured. In another incident, two people were shot dead at a tavern in Katlehong on Saturday night. On June 26, 21 youngsters died at a tavern in East London. Their cause of death has not been found yet. Daily News