THE Dingalings will pay tribute – in a light-hearted fashion – to women during Women’s Month with two performances. What Women Don’t Want features comedians Koobeshen Naidoo and Henry Ramkissoon. The show will be staged at the iZulu Theatre at Sibaya on August 5 to 7.  Kumseela Naidoo, head of marketing and public relations for Dingalings, said the stand-up show would also feature comedians Annott Payne and Kelvin Stoffels. “The four comedians promise to keep audiences in stitches with advice to men on how to be the perfect son, husband, son-in-law, neighbour, best friend and boyfriend.  “This show will take place during the long weekend celebration into women's week and is a must-see. This is adult entertainment at its best at the plush and beautiful iZulu Theatre.” The age restriction for the show is 16+.  Then, on August 9, Naidoo and Ramkissoon will perform a comedy skit as their altar egos, The Twisted Sisters, as part of a Women’s Day celebration. It will be hosted by Love at First Bite. Kumseela Naidoo said: “The Women's Day show is being presented by Love at First Bite, a well-loved TV show which has played over the last three years and boasts a viewership of 600 000. This is the most watched local programme on Glow TV.  “The event is an opportunity for our viewers to come out, meet the team and experience some amazing entertainment. The R250 ticket gives access to the a show, lunch and a dance party.” She said the entertainment line-up consisted of popular women who each bring to the stage a wealth of talent from years of performance. “The line-up consists of Natalie Rungan, queen of the music scene in Durban, who is joined by nightingales Yolanda Cenge, Candy Chetty,  Idols SA finalist Crystalene Nair, and the mesmerising voice and moves of Jemma Badenhorst. Each of these artists covers music from the ’80s’ to present day, bringing to the stage the most popular music of each genre. There will be everything from Tina Turner to Beyoncé. “And, of course, the popular alter egos of Dingalings Koobeshen Naidoo and Henry Ramkissoon, The Twisted Sisters. The duo do more than tell the fortunes of the desperate in need of help. They use the readings to comment, tongue-in-cheek, on the ills facing society currently.”  The show starts at 12 noon on Women’s Day and will be held at the newly-renovated Sibaya Theatre. Tickets for both events are available at Ticketpros.co.za or at Spar supermarkets. Corporate bookings can be made at 083 793 9969. POST