Durban - A feasibility study has found that eThekwini Municipality might need to invest a billion rand in the revamp of uShaka Marine World to turn it into the flagship entity that it was envisioned to be at its conception. This was one of the scenarios contained in the study that was conducted by service providers, who were appointed to put forward strategies to turn around the entity. The service providers briefed members of the executive committee (Exco) this week on the possible options to rescue the entity that is in the financial doldrums, and is surviving on bailouts from the municipality. Last year the city approved about R60 million in funding to help the entity stay afloat. The Exco members visited uShaka on Tuesday morning after councillors had demanded to be briefed on what was being done to save the entity. The feasibility proposes four scenarios that could be explored for the entity. The first would see the status quo remain with only minor changes to the structure and how the entity operates, and calls for minimal investment. The second scenario, called “baby steps”, suggests some changes, especially cost cutting and revamping some of its facilities. Under the second proposal, the feasibility study shows, the entity might have to cut costs by instituting budget freezes and reducing employee costs over the next few years. It would also see a minor revamp to the existing products at a cost of R75m. It was forecast that under this plan, the footfall (visitors) could stabilise at 943 000 people annually. Currently the entity has 843 000 annual visitors. Under the third scenario, which was called a mini-makeover, the entity would have to invest R200m. The last scenario proposes a total makeover of the entity, which forecast that the theme park could have up to 1.5 million visitors each year. This would entail a major revamp, expansion and diversification of the park, and the cost of this could be between R400m and R1bn, according to the report. The study also detailed the numerous challenges that have affected the financial viability of the entity. It found that the entity’s operations were seasonal and weather dependent, despite its costs remaining fixed. UShaka CEO Ndabo Khoza agreed that this was a problem, and added that the Covid-19 hard lockdown restrictions had seen the entity being forced to close down its operations despite bills having to be paid. “We pay about R4m per month. During the lockdown we ended up owing R16m in electricity, but we were not able to generate any revenue,” he said. However, the study found that the footfall was not bad when compared with other parks. It found that the entity attracted about 800 000 people annually. The councillors said they would only discuss the report once they had an opportunity to interrogate it. THE MERCURY