Durban - The National Freedom Party (NFP) condemned the attack of two farmers in Ladysmith in KwaZulu-Natal last week that ended tragically for one. The attack on Wednesday resulted in Gerry Khumalo being rushed to a hospital while another Sibusiso Gama died. Ahmed Munzoor Shaik Emam, leader of the NFP in Parliament said that the attack on farmers, irrespective of race, must be condemned in the strongest terms.  “The NFP, therefore, believes that the government needs to do more to address farm attacks, through the enforcement of laws and ensuring harsh sentences are given to those found guilty.” Emam said the farming sector is an important economic sector for South Africa’s development as it is directly linked to food security. “More needs to be done to protect all farmers and farm workers.” Emam added that the NFP calls for swift action from law enforcement. “The NFP calls on the police to work towards ensuring the safety of all people in rural areas, and ensure the perpetrators in the attack on Mr Khumalo and murder of Mr Gama face the harshest possible consequences for their actions.”  The NFP extended its condolences to the Gama family, and prays for the speedy recovery of Khumalo. Alf Lees, DA uThukela District Constituency head, said the DA condemns the murder of a commercial farmer and the attack on another. “Both farmers were shot multiple times while at the Truck Stop outside Ladysmith on Wednesday night.” “The victims of this shooting, Gerry Khumalo, who is injured and in hospital, and Sibusiso Gama, who was killed, are successful commercial farmers in the Ladysmith area.” Lees added that the DA extends their condolences to the Gama and Khumalo families and pray for strength as they deal with these sad events. “We call on the police to make every possible effort to identify the perpetrators of this gruesome crime as well as the motives for it. The perpetrators must face the harshest possible consequences for their actions.” Lees said the DA has repeatedly requested that the government establish a special task team to deal with ongoing attacks on rural communities. “Regrettably, our calls keep falling on deaf ears. Farmers are critical to our survival in this country, and the attacks on them are being ignored.” Police have been approached for comment.  THE MERCURY