Durban — The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Transport, Community Safety and Liaison has provided more details on the shooting in Sweetwaters, Pietermaritzburg, on Saturday night. “Police reports suggest that occupants of a VW Polo hatch with Pietermaritzburg registration plates were seen on CCTV cameras jumping out off the vehicle, entering the tavern and immediately started shooting at the people inside the liquor establishment in Sweetwaters. Soon after that they got back into their vehicle and drove off,” the department said. “Twelve people sustained gunshot wounds in different parts of their bodies. Two of them aged between 30 and 33 were declared dead on the scene while two others aged between 40 and 45 later died in hospital. The eight who were injured were rushed to a nearby hospital for further medical attention. “Six bullet heads, one live round and 16 cartridges all from a 9mm pistol were discovered on the scene and they form part of the police investigation,” the department added. Acting Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Jomo Sibiya raised concerns over the shooting incident. Sibiya called for police to undertake a thorough investigation as to the motive of this senseless killing. “We are calling on law enforcement to work around the clock to ensure that all those behind this killing are brought to book. We cannot let our province be paraded by criminals.  “We are also appealing to all those who witnessed the incident and the general public to come forward and assist the police in their investigation. “We want to send our deepest condolences to the families of the victims and also assure them that the police are working tirelessly to get to the bottom of this,” Sibiya said. The MEC also expressed his gravest concern regarding the proliferation of illegal firearms in the hands of the wrong people. The Provincial Organised Crime Unit is investigating charges of murder and attempted murder. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said that the shooting took place at Samkelisiwe Tavern. Provincial police commissioner Lieutenant-General Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi deployed maximum resources following the shooting. Mkhwanazi condemned the shooting and deployed members of Crime Intelligence, forensic experts as well as a tactical unit to form part of an investigation team led by the Provincial Organised Crime Investigation Unit. “The team will be working around the clock to track down and bring to book those responsible for this shooting,” Mkhwanazi said. Meanwhile, at least 14 patrons were shot dead in a tavern in Soweto and nine were left injured. Two people were shot dead at a tavern in Katlehong on Saturday night. On June 26, 21 youngsters died at a tavern in East London. Their cause of death has not been determined yet. Daily News