Durban -  Umgeni Water has said they would be shutting down aqueduct 3 to conduct essential urgent repairs to a leak. The shutdown will be from Tuesday, July 5, to Sunday, July 10. Umgeni Water said the leak on Aqueduct 3 in the vicinity of Annet Drive, Reservoir Hills, Durban has worsened over the past three months, from a drip to a constant flow that is visible by passers-by.  Aqueduct 3 conveys, on average, 180 million litres (Ml/d) of raw water daily from Nagle Dam to the Durban Heights Water Treatment Works (WTW) in Reservoir Hills. Umgeni Water said that the shutting down of the aqueduct was necessary to prevent a potentially hazardous situation. “Similar to the other three aqueducts, this is a high-pressure pipe that conveys large volumes of water for treatment at the plant. In the interest of public safety and to prevent further water loss, Umgeni Water has taken a decision to shut down aqueduct 3 from the morning of Tuesday, July 5 2022, so that this essential work can be undertaken. “In terms of the work schedule provided by the contractor, it will take six days for the repairs to be completed, which includes a day for draining and drying of the inside of the pipe.” Umgeni Water added that this means that the pipe will again begin receiving water from Monday, July 11. The water entity said it has informed eThekwini Water and Sanitation of the urgent nature of the work and of its duration. “During the shutdown, there will be a reduction in the amount of treated (potable) water Umgeni Water normally supplies to eThekwini Water and Sanitation.  “Similarly, due to reduced volumes of raw water reaching the plant and potable water being produced during the period when aqueduct 3 will be offline, it may not be possible to maintain the on-site Reservoir 2 at a minimum of four (4) metres. This level is required for there to be sufficient head pressure to supply eThekwini Water and Sanitation reservoirs in high-lying areas, particularly in the South of Durban.” It said therefore, consumers in uMlazi, Chatsworth, Northdene and surrounding areas are likely to experience low pressure or intermittent water supply. Umgeni Water added that at this stage aqueducts 1 and 2, which were severely damaged in the April 2022 floods, remain decommissioned while repairs are undertaken.  “As a consequence, Umgeni Water is using three and intermittently the fourth emergency shaft pumps to transfer water from Inanda Dam to the Durban Heights WTW, as an augmentation measure. To mitigate possible risk of failure, the fourth shaft pump is brought into use for five (5) days in a week, thus allowing its rest period of two (2) days. In the period in which the shaft pumps are used, the full required volumes of raw water reach the plant for treatment; conversely, a deficit occurs in the remaining two days.” Umgeni Water said that at this stage, replacement of the 180 million litres of raw water that will be temporarily lost from aqueduct 3 is not possible due to implementation of available contingency measures.  “Umgeni Water provides an assurance that everything possible will be done to try to complete the work on aqueduct 3 within or even before the allocated time frame.” THE MERCURY