Durban — The gang of eight business robbers, with six shot dead in a shoot-out, may be linked to the recent spate of robberies at local car dealerships. Marshall Security managing director Tyron Powell said further investigations into the gang of eight business robbers involved in the high-speed chase and shoot-out with its members – where six suspects were shot dead and the remaining two were arrested – reveal they could be linked to the recent spate of robberies at local car dealerships. The shoot-out had occurred on Wednesday. “It was later established that the same suspects are possibly linked to numerous car dealership business robberies in the uMhlanga and greater Durban area,” Powell said. On Thursday, police spokesperson, Brigadier Jay Naicker, said “a sixth suspect passed away in hospital due to injuries sustained. One suspect is still in hospital while the second is in police custody.” Naicker said in the early hours of Wednesday, a gang of eight men arrived in two vehicles at a mall in Empangeni. They held up the security guard and broke into a shop at the mall. The suspects stole clothing and various other items before fleeing. “A security company in the area was notified and immediately alerted all other role-players to indicate that the vehicles were travelling towards Durban.  “At the Tongaat toll plaza, other security companies and police officers joined in the chase. The suspects opened fire on their pursuers and there was an exchange of gunfire,” Naicker said. He said both vehicles lost control and overturned along the N2 freeway near the King Shaka International Airport. Initially, five died in both vehicles while two were found with serious injuries and transported to hospital. Police arrested the eighth suspect as he fled the scene. “Three firearms, as well as housebreaking equipment and other exhibits, were found in both vehicles. The suspects will be profiled to establish if they are linked to other crimes in the province.  “Dockets for armed robbery, attempted murder as well as illegal possession of firearms and ammunition will be opened against the men,” Naicker said. He said the suspect in police custody was expected to appear in court soon. Daily News