Durban — Seven men were expected to appear in court after they were arrested after being found in possession of copper and cables worth an estimated street value of R1.5 million in Ntuzuma, north of Durban. In a statement, the eThekwini Municipality said the arrest came as a multidisciplinary task team discovered an illegal scrap metal dealer in Ntuzuma A-Section manufacturing traditional three-legged pots using copper and cables that allegedly belong to eThekwini Municipality and Transnet on Monday. Part of the team was the South African Police Service, Metro Police, Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa, Transnet, Telkom and Eskom. The municipality said that the team had received a tip-off and subsequently conducted a raid at a house in Ntuzuma. “Numerous stripped copper cables were discovered in the yard. While searching the premises, a R5 rifle and round of ammunition were also found,” the municipality said. It said the suspects were charged with being in possession of stolen property and the operation of other illegal activities. They were expected to appear in court on Tuesday. Metro Police deputy head Sibonelo Mchunu thanked members of the task team for their swift response. He assured the public of the commitment of Metro Police to tackle cable theft. “The public must report such acts because they compromise the quality of life of residents. Community members must not look away when they are aware of syndicates involved in cable theft as it disrupts the provision of services,” Mchunu said. The municipality said the task team has had other successes in curbing cable theft. Last month the team arrested 29 people in Hammarsdale after they were found stealing copper cables. The task team’s primary focus is addressing the scourge of economic infrastructure related crimes. The municipality added that it loses around R60 million annually to copper theft. The theft of cables has a negative impact on the city’s communication network, electricity supply, and railway and traffic services. Many of the power outages experienced are due to cable theft. Any suspicion of cable theft or damage to infrastructure must be reported to the SAPS on 10111 and the Metro Police emergency line on 031 361 0000. On Friday, police received intelligence about an illegal scrap metal dealer operating at Shakaskraal in the Umhlali policing area. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said that at 11.20am, a multidisciplinary joint operation was put in place after police had conducted a preliminary reconnaissance of the identified premises. She said the team swooped on the scrapyard and an inspection was conducted. It was established that the business was indeed operating illegally. “Copper cables which belonged to Transnet were recovered and weighed 614.5kg. A further search was conducted and 18 cellphone tower batteries were found concealed in a bag. The total value of the recovered property is estimated at R1m,” Gwala said. She said the three men aged between 34 and 36 were arrested for the possession of stolen property and tampering with essential infrastructure. “The docket has been transferred to the Hawks who took over the investigation,” Gwala said. Daily News