Durban — Bafana Bafana and the Zambian national team, Chipolopolo, have arrived in the coastal province of KwaZulu-Natal. The teams are in Durban for the Hollywoodbets Cosafa Cup quarter-finals. Bafana Bafana landed at King Shaka International Airport on Sunday night and were welcomed by their supporters and traditional Zulu dancers. Chipolopolo arrived afterwards. Traditional Zulu dancers set the airport abuzz with their dance and the sound of their drums. A special welcome to the COSAFA Cup defending champions at King Shaka International Airport upon arrival in Durban.🇿🇦@TourismKZN @COSAFAMEDIA #COSAFACup2022 pic.twitter.com/pjSFEz9gsZ Bafana Bafana will face Mozambique in the quarter-finals of the Hollywoodbets Cosafa Cup at 5pm on Wednesday at King Zwelithini Stadium in Umlazi, while Zambia will take on Botswana on Tuesday. eThekwini Municipality mayor Mxolisi Kaunda said: “eThekwini has proved to be a happy hunting ground for the national team, and we have no doubt that they will go all the way to the finals and win the coveted Cosafa Cup. We call on all the people of eThekwini and the football-loving community to rally behind not only Bafana Bafana but all the participating countries. Tickets to all the games are free. With the easing of the Covid-19 restrictions, we have no excuse but to pack all the venues.” KwaZulu-Natal Arts, Culture, Sport and Recreation MEC Hlengiwe Mavimbela said Bafana Bafana’s arrival would add sparkle to the Cosafa Cup tournament, which is currently underway. “We extend a warm welcome to Bafana Bafana and the other teams as they arrive in the province to participate in the quarter-finals of the Cosafa Cup. We look forward to the excitement in our venues as the tournament progresses to the next round. I want to reiterate our call for the people of eThekwini and other parts of the province to fill up the stadiums and support the teams,” said MEC Mavimbela. The group stages of the Cosafa Cup kicked off last week Tuesday at the King Zwelithini Stadium. This week, the quarter-finals commence, with the final taking place this Sunday. It is the first time fans are allowed into stadiums for the Cosafa Cup since the tournament was last played in Durban in 2019. Tickets for all the games are free. The tickets can be collected at the following venues: Zinto Cele Park in uMlazi, Moses Mabhida stadium, Kings Park Swimming Pool car parking and the China Mall at the Wheel. Daily News