Durban - ActionSA wants to topple the ANC as leaders of the KwaDukuza Municipality by the end of this month with a vote of no confidence. The party revealed that it plans to table a motion of no confidence against mayor Lindile Nhaca and the other political office-bearers. The Mercury understands the municipality is led by the ANC with a coalition with the AIC and the ATM. The party’s provincial secretary, Bongani Caluza, said that following an ActionSA KZN provincial executive committee (PEC) meeting on Monday, it was resolved that the PEC would be in full support of the motion of no confidence tabled against Nhaca, deputy mayor Thulani Ntuli and Speaker of Council Dolly Govender. Sources in the party said the motion was led not only by ActionSA, but also other parties in the council. They said the motion was driven by the failures of the ANC in that municipality, but primarily they (ANC) do not have a mandate to govern because their support dropped from 64% to 49% in the last election. “The opposition parties outnumber them and we have proven as ActionSA that we are able to render better services through a multi-party government that does not include the ANC. We have done so in Gauteng, we are doing so in Newcastle and KwaDukuza is our next stop,” said the source. Caluza said: “The residents of KwaDukuza indicated that they were no longer willing to be governed by the ANC as they only received 49% of the votes during the 2021 local government elections. “ActionSA together with other opposition parties in the municipality are willing to work towards a multi-party coalition government in KwaDukuza that will deliver better services to residents and rescue them from the continued misrule of the corrupt ANC. “The motion of no confidence will be tabled on 28 July 2022.  ActionSA KZN PEC members will attend council to support and to witness this historic event. ActionSA in KZN remains resolute in the mission to unseat the ANC in the province,” it said. Asked whether the motion will have the votes to be carried, ActionSA leaders said: “The official answer is that we have engaged all political parties about this motion of no confidence.” “We want to work with opposition parties. Our main objective is to remove the ANC wherever we are in council. The matter of who will ultimately lead the municipality is a subsequent matter that will be discussed. The primary objective is to remove the ANC and render better services to our people,” said Caluza. The DA’s Dean Macpherson said: “The DA is currently engaged in discussions with sene political parties to put together a workable and viable coalition government. The DA has been committed to these talks from day one, to ensure that all parties that share our values are listened to and accommodated in a potential coalition.  “We also respect the other parties enough to not make pronouncements outside of our forum until such time as a deal has been concluded. Anyone speaking on behalf of other political parties is unfortunate, and risks destabilising the delicate process of putting a coalition deal together.” The ANC in the General Gizenga Mpanza region, where KwaDukuza is situated, said they would release a statement on the matter on Wednesday afternoon. THE MERCURY