Durban - Tasmika Mahabir had hoped to collect 130 teddy bears to donate to children as her Mandela Day initiative. But the 22-year-old ended up collecting 450 stuffed toys for her Teddy Up campaign. Mahabir, of uMhlanga, said the initiative, which ran from July 11 to 17, was for the children to get a fluffy friend. She has distributed the teddy bears to various children's homes, including the Aryan Benevolent Home, Cheshire Children's Homes, Westville Baby Home and Phoenix Child Welfare. Mahabir, a fifth year medical student at UKZN's Nelson R Mandela School of Medicine, said: “I never expected to surpass my goal. But most of all, it was heartwarming to see the smile the teddy bears brought to the children’s faces. It is something that will remain with me forever. “I remember at one of the homes, a baby was crabby and crying, but as soon as he was given the teddy bear his face lit up and it was all smiles and giggles from there. “However, I was most touched while at the Cheshire Homes. There are many children who are disabled or have cerebral palsy and when they were given the teddy bears, some kissed them and were so happy. One of the girls asked me to hug her because she was happy." Mahabir, a Bharata Natyam dance graduate at the Kumari Shiksha’s Dance Institute, said the initiative spread by word of mouth. "And a poster I made was suddenly on people’s social media statuses. People called and messaged to say they would like to drop off new or pre-loved teddy bears. “We initially didn't have a drop-off area, so my home became the drop-off point. However, we got a good reach and the Umhlanga Hindu Society Temple, Spice Girls Curry Café in Chatsworth and the Kumari Shiksha’s Dance Institute in Phoenix all came forward to support me by making their space drop-off areas." Mahabir, a finalist in the 2022 Zee TV Miss India SA contest, said she was inspired to start Teddy Up by her seven-year-old cousin, Aarav. “Seeing his adoration for teddies and the smile it brought to his face, drove my determination to deliver the same feeling to other children. Teddy bears are associated with love and a hug. By passing down a teddy bear, we are basically passing down love in the form of a fluffy companion." Mahabir said she chose Mandela Day for the initiative as he was known for his commitment to the betterment of the lives of others. “Our late former president had a special love and concern for children. I believe we should let his legacy of spreading hope radiate among the population and ensure it's never lost. To honour him, I have pledged to distribute teddy bears to as many children as possible. “The Teddy Up will now be run annually for Mandela Day. Those who did not get a chance to support the initiative can do so next year. I also hope to expand my reach. I would like to say thank you to everyone who donated and a special thanks to my friends and family who assisted throughout,” she said.   THE POST