Durban - Political parties in KwaZulu-Natal have offered their condolences to the families of those who were shot in the horrific KwaZulu-Natal tavern shooting in Sweetwaters this past weekend. DA KZN spokesperson for community safety and liaison, Sharon Hoosen, says the DA is deeply disturbed by the level of violence in the province.  “We are equally concerned by the attacks being carried out in places such as taverns, which appears to be a new trend.” According to reports, armed men stormed the tavern, shooting 12 people. Tragically, four lives were lost and eight people were seriously injured. “The question is: What kind of society have we become, that criminals are taking innocent lives on a daily basis? And why are there no consequences for the vast majority of these murderers?” asked Hoosen. Sharing similar sentiments with the DA, ActionSA says South Africa has degenerated into a lawless country where a daily occurrence of violent crimes has become commonplace.  “Those who have lost their lives, and their affected families, could have been spared this tragedy if our government prioritised adherence to the rule of law and supported an effective criminal justice system,” said ActionSA president Herman Mashaba. IFP spokesperson for community safety and liaison in the KwaZulu-Natal legislature, Blessed Gwala says the party is concerned that similar incidents have occurred in Gauteng, with liquor outlets hot spots for criminal activity. “We urge the Department of Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs to investigate the legality of the mushrooming taverns, which have become targets of criminality. This province cannot afford more liquor outlets, as it already has over 6 000 legal outlets. This is a recipe for disaster, as police officers are far outnumbered. Further, the IFP calls for heightened compliance campaigns to ensure safety and compliance,” said Gwala. Gwala urged law enforcement to enforce regulations at taverns and shebeens, particularly with regards to the age of patrons. “We also call for owners to install surveillance cameras and provide maximum security for places of leisure,” he added. ANC spokesperson in the Moses Mabhida region, Njabulo Mtolo, said the party is extremely distressed by the recent surge of murders and other violent acts of criminality taking place in communities. “This anarchy is pushing our region to the brink. It has now reached unprecedented levels as criminals rob, hijack, kidnap and kill our people daily, (with) pervading unspeakable horror in our communities. The basic principles articulated in the Freedom Charter and the constitutional guarantees of safety, security and comfort; freedom of trade; and freedom of movement have been severely curtailed,” he said. He said while the SAPS and other related law enforcement agencies need to strengthen their capabilities, fighting crime should not be seen as the sole responsibility of the government. KZN acting Community Safety MEC, Jomo Sibiya accompanied by the provincial police commissioner Lieutenant-General Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi and the local leadership, will visit the tavern where the incident occurred on Monday. THE MERCURY