Durban - The dreams of 10 talented youngsters to participate in an international arts competition in the US were dashed after their visa applications into the country were declined based on their “lower socio-economic background”. The youngsters from Inanda, north of Durban, have been trained by the GO!Durban Musical Theatre Programme, a youth development initiative spearheaded by the eThekwini Transport Authority, and were supposed to perform in the World Championships of Performing Arts in Los Angeles this month. They are part of a group of 56 young participants from South Africa who qualified for this international competition that is the only talent Olympics in the world where singers, dancers, actors, models and instrumentalists from different countries compete for the titles of Senior and Junior Grand Champion Performers of the World. At the qualifiers the Inanda teens won the highest award of the competition – the Grand Champion Group Award. Now almost a year after qualifying, raising funds and preparing, their journey ends here, in South Africa. According to the academy’s project manager Des Govender, 17 visa applications were denied, 10 of which were from the academy. She said the consular officer handling the applications explained that they didn’t show strong enough financial ties to South Africa; they had not travelled out of the country before and their parents and backgrounds pointed to their being illegal immigrant risks. Govender said all 10 visas were declined, citing lower socio-economic backgrounds, and with no way to appeal against the decision. She said eThekwini Municipality deputy mayor, Philani Mavundla, was part of the team that was going to be travelling with them along with six adult chaperones, three of whom were city officials, so they were not an immigration risk. “The news has been crushing and completely devastating. If anyone deserved to be on that stage in Los Angeles, it’s them,” said Govender. The Consulate General of the US, in responding to the matter, said all visa applications were examined on a caseby-case basis. “Visa records are confidential under US law; therefore, we cannot discuss the details of individual visa cases. Whenever an individual applies for a US visa, a consular officer reviews the facts of the case and determines whether the applicant is eligible for that visa based on US law. “As each application is adjudicated on a case-by-case basis, it is indeed possible for family members or applicants travelling for the same programme to receive different outcomes from their visa interviews. “This is true for all reasons for travel, including sport and arts competitions,” said US Consulate Durban Public Affairs Officer, Jaclyn Cole. THE MERCURY