Durban — KwaZulu-Natal police have launched a manhunt for a gang of suspects who attempted to rob a cash-in-transit (CIT) vehicle earlier this week in Kokstad, southwest of KZN. The Fidelity Services Group CIT vehicle driver was shot dead on Monday in a botched CIT heist attempt. National police spokesperson Colonel Athlenda Mathe said KZN police had launched a manhunt for a group of suspects after a 38-year-old Fidelity security guard was killed during a CIT robbery in the Njunga area. “According to reports, the Fidelity cash guards were driving to a business premises to conduct their daily duties of collecting and dropping off money when they were attacked with a hail of bullets by a group of unknown heavily armed men who were travelling in a bakkie,” Mathe said. “The security guard of the cash van lost control and veered into a river.” “It was later found that the driver succumbed to gunshot wounds. The suspects fled the scene,” Mathe continued. She said the vehicle used by the suspects was later found abandoned between Kokstad and uMzimkhulu. Mathe said police are investigating charges of cash in transit robbery, murder and attempted murder. Members of the public who may have information on this incident are encouraged to call the Crime Stop Hotline number on 086 00 10111. Fidelity Services Group chief executive Wahl Bartmann said that at 8.04am on Monday morning, a Fidelity CIT team in Kokstad was ambushed en route to their base by six heavily armed gunmen. He said the suspects rammed the Fidelity vehicle, unfortunately, fatally shooting the driver. The two remaining crewmen were able to escape when the suspects set the vehicle alight. Bartmann said the suspects were not able to access any of the cash in the vehicle. “Our sincere condolences go out to the family of our deceased officer. “The attacks are occurring with increasing regularity, and although less or no money is being stolen, there is enormous disregard for the sanctity of life, and this senseless loss of life is just not acceptable. Vehicles are also being destroyed unnecessarily, which just adds to the overall resource cost,” Bartmann said. He said that any information from the public is welcome and should be communicated immediately to their tip-off number - for WhatsApp, SMS, or please call 083 939 0300, or call 011 766 6061. Daily News