DURBAN - A gang of armed suspects targeted a house on Alysham Close in Reservoir Hills and waited for the right moment to strike and then forced their way in at gunpoint. Members of the Inkosi Security team were dispatched to the house after receiving reports of a home invasion at about 9am on Monday morning. “The resident opened for his dog and did not notice anything suspicious and went back in,” said the security company. Inkosi Security said an elderly woman was then met by an armed suspect by the window and he forced her to open for the suspects to enter the house. The victims were held at gunpoint while the suspects searched the home for valuables, said the company. Inkosi Security said the gang made off with several valuable items including a silver Mercedes A class vehicle. The security company said the suspects used a silver Jetta with an unknown registration number. “(The) residents are okay but shaken up by the experience. It was noted (by) the residents that the Jetta was seen not too far from the residence since Friday,” said Inkosi Security. Provincial police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala confirmed the incident. Gwala said according to the complainant, four suspects entered the home and at gunpoint forced the male resident into a room while they ransacked the house for valuables. The suspects fled the scene in the complainant’s vehicle with two TV sets, a computer, cellphones and other belongings, she said. “No shots were fired. The matter is still under investigation,” said Gwala. Police said a case of house robbery is being investigated by Sydenham SAPS. MOST READ: – KZN takes another beating: OThongathi and uMdloti suffer severe damage to roads, houses, waterworks – LOOK: Road closures in and around Durban as red weather alert stays in effect – Heavy rains push Hazelmere Dam to risky high levels – Big black mamba seeks shelter from heavy rains, flooding in Mariannhill property – PICS & VIDEO: Heavy rains wash uMdloti waterworks and road infrastructure away, 14 rescued from a ‘compromised building’ THE MERCURY