Durban – Pietermaritzburg residents expressed their heartbreak after a 5-year-old boy was killed in a hit-and-run accident on Friday night, which left a 10-year-old girl injured. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said  Prestbury SAPS were investigating a case of culpable homicide. “It is alleged that on May 27, 2022 at 5.45pm, a 5-year-old child was knocked by a vehicle on Mayors Walk. The driver failed to stop after the accident,” Gwala said. The Mi7 National Group responded to the scene after reports of a motor vehicle incident involving pedestrians. “Mi7 medics found a 5-year-old boy who had succumbed to his injuries and was declared deceased on the scene,” Mi7 National Group spokesperson, Colin Davids, said. “A 10-year-old girl sustained minor injuries, and was transported to a nearby hospital by another service provider.” Davids said it is believed that both children were crossing the road when they were struck by the vehicle. The driver fled the scene. Commenting on Facebook, users said: Xana Grebe said: “The saddest day of my life witnessing this. The mother was with them. I have images in my head that I will never be able to get out of my head. To the mom and dad, I am truly truly sorry for your loss. Tonight I felt your pain, I still do.” Stephanie Melmoth said she was on her way home when the accident happened. “I pass my condolences to the child’s parents, but my question is what the hell was a 5-year-old doing crossing the road in the dark? I am a mother of two and I would never allow my children out without me in sight. It’s really sad that this happened, but it’s so frustrating at the same time.” Pearl Pieterse Marais said hearing about the tragedy, it was weighing heavily on her heart. “Since hearing about this tragedy it is weighing heavy on my heart…RIP little one, my thoughts and prayers are with the parents and loved ones, and I hope the little girl is okay.” “I hope the heartless person is caught… Just don’t know how one can just drive off… Maybe under the influence?” Marais said. Séan Bradick Noordman said it was the second hit-and-run accident in a week. “Cars driving wild on this road 24/7. And no officials ever come to work here. At peak traffic times, it’s bad. Scary being in a car, never mind being a pedestrian,” Noordman said. Sanele Zuma said he passed the crash scene and felt bad seeing the little boy’s body lying there, and his sister crying. Daily News