COMEDY giants Jason and Nicholas Goliath are set to perform at Durban’s Bat Centre at the weekend. Goliath & Goliath Live at the Bat will be hosted by Richelieu B with Annie, Mangaliso and other comics. The shows take place on May 27 and 28 from 8pm. The duo will be performing in the city after recently commemorating 10 years of Goliath  &Goliath in comedy. Nicholas said he last performed in Durban before the Covid-19 pandemic. “I most enjoy the ugly laugh. Durban laughs ugly. They laugh loud, and because my family is from Durban I feel like I understand the audience and they understand me. I’m able to relate. Durban audiences are extremely smart and so much fun to be be with.” He said his biggest learning point in navigating the pandemic as an artist was that flexibility is key. “No matter what plans you have for the future, anything can change and if you are not flexible enough to go with the change, it can completely derail your plans. Or it could just put your plans onto a different track. If you are flexible, you can still move in the right direction.  “Flexibility is something that you have to have in life because the only thing that is consistent is change. So be happy with what you’ve got, appreciate where you are and keep moving forward.” Nicholas said he was thrilled to be back, performing live.  “There is comparison. Live comedy is a hundred thousand times better than online. We were able to find a way to do online shows and make it successful and be good at it, but there is no feeling like a live audience.” He said what kept Goliath & Goliath comedy going over the past decade was their drive to be better. “Not better than anybody, but better than we were the day before. It’s about trying to learn more and do more in the industry every day. It’s about grabbing every opportunity that has been given to us because each opportunity will lead you to the next and you never know where that could take you.  “That’s exactly what happened to us. We took advantage of every opportunity whether it be film, TV, radio, and it’s been a recipe for success.” He would not be drawn on what’s to be expected from the show.  “The only way to know what the themes and topics of the show are is to get your tickets. So if you don’t have your tickets then you’re never going to know, unless you hear from other people who were at the show, and they are going be tell you how amazing it was and you will feel bad for not being there.  “So get your tickets and we can discuss my themes and topics at the end of the show,” he joked. * Tickets are available from Quicket.co.za POST