DURBAN - KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison Neliswa Nkonyeni offered her condolences to the families of 16 people who lost their lives in a “gruesome” multi-vehicle crash that occurred allegedly after a truck overturned on the N3 in Pietermaritzburg on Saturday. In a statement on Saturday, Nkonyeni expressed her shock and sadness after learning about the tragic accident. It is believed that the Toyota Quantum minibus was travelling from Gauteng to Harding in southern KwaZulu-Natal. The department said based on preliminary information, the horrific accident occurred in the early hours of Saturday morning while an overturned truck was in the process of being removed between Peter Brown and Sanctuary Road. “As it was still awaiting removal from the freeway and as vehicles were travelling. trying to divert from the overturned truck, a Toyota Quantum minibus went under the truck, causing a chain reaction which resulted in a nine car pile-up,” it said. The department said the minibus, which had 17 entrapped occupants, caught alight. “One 7 year old boy in the minibus survived after his mother who was trapped in the minibus was able to squeeze him through the window and handed him over to an Road Traffic Inspectorate officer who had been attending to the truck that had overturned,” said KZN Transport. Sixteen passengers were burnt beyond recognition, said the department. Nkonyeni has expressed her heartfelt condolences to the families of the deceased. Among the deceased included seven females and nine males who were all passengers in the minibus, said the department. “We are deeply saddened by this gruesome accident which has claimed so many lives. My heartfelt condolences to the families of all the victims,” said Nkonyeni. The department said the boy was rushed to Northdale Hospital where he is being treated for internal injuries. “I also wish those who sustained injuries a speedy recovery,” said the MEC.      MOST READ: – Vehicle hijacked in PMB found in KZN South Coast chop shop, suspects dropped victim off in Cato Manor – Durban Solid Waste worker dies in truck accident while on duty – Teen sisters speak of trauma after being raped during KZN house robbery, one of the rapists handed hefty sentence – eThekwini Water and Sanitation clerk, two service providers nabbed for fraud – Black mamba rescued in the parking lot of Westville office park THE MERCURY