Durban – The KwaZulu-Natal Sharks Board observed 23 areas in the Eastern Cape that indicated sardine activity. The board conducted another observation flight into the Eastern Cape waters to assess the movement of the sardine shoals thus far on Tuesday. The flight departed from Virginia Airport and turned at Hole in the Wall. KZN Sharks Board acting head of operations Greg Thompson said the water was very discoloured for most of the coastline, especially in KZN, due to the latest flooding. “However, the visibility improved as we got into the Eastern Cape and from the Msikaba area the activity started to pick up, which was good to see,” Thompson said. “The most favourable water visibility on this flight was only approximately 3-4m and this was in the entire area between Hole in the Wall and Umgazana.” Thompson said the indicators were all positive that the sardines were making their way up from the Eastern Cape towards KZN. Especially, when you take the increase in shark activity at Grosvenor into consideration. There is also a good possibility that we may have missed activity further north towards KZN due to poor visibility. “However, there have been many occasions in the past when predictions and opinions have been totally incorrect. These fish can move through in the deep or in the discoloured water that we are experiencing at the moment, out of sight of most of the predators and arrive in KZN without warning. Then there is always the possibility that they continue moving north on the deeper line and we don’t get to see them at all,” Thompson said. The following observations were made as we moved through to Hole in the Wall. (These numbers are approximate figures): Msikaba Grosvenor “This is a definite indication that there are sardines in that area,” Thompson said. Goss Point Luphuthana Waterfall Bluff Mbotyi Manteku Black Sands Mntafufu Poenskop Umngazi Umngazana Brazen Head The Kraal Mpande Hluleka Mtakatye Presley Bay Mdumbi Mthatha Maphuzi Coffee Bay Hole in the Wall Thompson added that the next flight to East London was scheduled for June 2, but it was dependent on weather conditions. Daily News