DURBAN -  Tyres, rims, tools, radios, remotes and batteries were among the items, which are believed to be stolen goods, found at two properties in the Berea area in Durban following a tip-off Blue Security received from a client. On Monday, the security company said the tip-off led to a massive bust of suspected stolen goods, by Blue Security and SAPS Umbilo. “Six unsuspecting suspects, including the kingpin, were caught by our quick responding area manager, Community Crime Prevention Unit (CCPU), and SAPS Umbilo officers at two properties that were the hub for these criminal’s activity.” Describing how the operation unfolded, Blue Security said the area manager saw four suspects loading a vehicle outside a property and immediately apprehended them. “He then called for assistance from our CCPU Team and SAPS Umbilo who, upon further investigation, tracked and apprehended two more suspects around the corner (at another property).” Blue Security said both properties contained suspected stolen goods such as tyres, rims, tools, radios, remotes and batteries. “All the suspects and the vehicle were rounded up and handed over to the SAPS Berea for further investigation,” said the security company. Provincial police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Nqobile Gwala, said Umbilo police officers and private security officials arrested two suspects on Botanic Gardens Road in Berea on Monday. “The suspects were found in possession of two tyres with rims. The tyres were found kept inside the house,” she said. Gwala said a case of possession of stolen property is being investigated by Berea SAPS. The suspects aged 46 and 53 were arrested for possession of suspected stolen property. They are appearing before the Durban Magistrates’ Court today. “The suspects aged 46 and 53 were arrested for possession of suspected stolen property. They are appearing before the Durban Magistrates’ Court today[Tuesday],” said Gwala.      MOST READ:  – WATCH: Two suspects appear in court over theft of fuel worth R1200 from a Westville garage – Durban motorist recalls how Good Samaritan saved her from attack by knife wielding robber at a traffic light – Kloof residents raise alarm over land invasions – KZN man shoots 2 sons dead, injures 3 others and turns gun on himself in dispute over new bed – Woman,42, killed in alleged drive-by shooting in KwaMashu THE MERCURY