OMESHNIE NAIDOO FROM Chatsworth to a chateau in South-West France, a local clothing designer is on the French Riveria to compete in his first world angling championship. Zahed Moosa, 40, of Havenside, is among a team of eight South Africans who landed in Mimizan at the weekend to participate in the 4th FIPS Pairs Surfcasting World Championships. The competition started on Monday and ends on June 6. Moosa and his teammates will be marooned within a 20 to 30m radius for the duration of the competition, with the aim of catching as many fish as possible. Only fish larger than 15cm in length will count. "Some might say this is highly technical fishing, and international competitions are governed by strict rules," said Moosa. "Essentially, we will only be allowed to fish in this designated area. This means we can only fish what is in front of us. As fishermen, we must rely on all the knowledge we have gained over the years to make those catches." Moosa said his dad, uncle, and grandfather were competitive anglers. "Family holidays almost always revolved around life in the outdoors: camping and fishing. My love for nature was nurtured from a young age, and I fondly recall spending most of my spare time as a teenager fishing on Durban's South Coast." The salt in his veins led him to pursue a degree in environmental management and a business choice of active apparel manufacture. It's due to this combined passion that Moosa manufactures gear for fishing, surfing and the outdoors. His brand is called Ghoti. “Fifteen years ago, people went fishing in their overalls. Since then, the sport has evolved locally, and we have been fortunate enough to have had the opportunity to get innovative with what anglers wear. Now, when the surfers and swimmers are out on the beach in their kit, the fisherman with his rod can look just as trendy alongside them.” Moosa said their clothing would not be all team SA stands out for in France. The team is led by Jose Alfonso, a four-time world champion, and Riyadh Cassim, the team manager, who won gold at FIPS last year. The rest of the teammates are Avash Juggernauth, Andrew Narainsamy, Pierre Viljoen, Lindor Mdletse, Viloshan Naicker and Vimal Ganesh. Moosa said as fish, rock and surf fishermen, all eyes would be on them. “More than 20 countries will compete in the Atlantic Ocean competitions in the coming weeks, but it is us, South Africans and the Namibians, who are the true fish, rock and surf fishermen. It takes a skilled fisherman to stand on a beach fishing between the rocks and big waves and still catch the big fish. I believe that’s our advantage.” Moosa said there were many gifted fishermen in Durban - some of whom are using their skills to provide for their families. "I encourage them to also join the competitions. As they say, there is plenty of fish in the sea.” Some of the other countries that will compete include Belgium, Scotland, Spain, Germany and Mauritania. The prizes, he said, included medals, a trophy and the bragging rights of being the best in the world. Moosa has also been selected to represent SA in the FIPS Pairs World  Championships in Italy in 2023.  POST