Durban: The bail hearing for Shaun Naicker, who is accused of killing his girlfriend, has been postponed. Naicker, 39, an employee at a shipping company appeared in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday for murder. He is accused of killing Jackie Naidoo. Naidoo, 35, was burnt beyond recognition during a fire at her home in Westham, Phoenix, on May 9. The matter was adjourned to May 30. She lived in a two-bedroom council flat with her 12-year-old son and Naicker. They had been in a relationship for four years. Colleen Vermeulen said according to Naidoo’s neighbours on the morning of the incident they saw her nephew leave for school and then Naicker packing his belongings and leaving the home in her car. "Moments later, her neighbours heard glass exploding and then saw the fire. They called the fire department and police for help. She was found lying on her bed. Her African Grey birds also died." Naicker was arrested and charged shortly after the incident. During his court appearance, Naicker's family and friends stood outside the court to protest against his release on bail. Protesters wore white T-shirts with Naidoo's picture and the words Justice for Jackie. They also held posters calling for an end to gender-based violence. Among, the protesters was her son. Vermeulen said in their quest for justice they started an online petition opposing the bail. “We have garnered about 500 signatures and this was handed to the investigating officer. We still cannot believe my sister was taken away from us in such a brutal manner. We will not let her death become just another statistic for GBV. We will fight for justice.” Vermeulen is caring for Naidoo’s son. “I am trying to be strong for him. He has not gone back to school. He is still dealing with and processing everything that has happened. He misses his mother. There are days when he expects her to call. He managed to salvage a bottle of her perfume from their home. He sprays it on his pillow and in his room at my house so he can feel close to her.” Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala, a police spokesperson, said a case of murder is being investigated by the Phoenix SAPS.  The Post