Durban – Water supply in eManzimtoti and its surrounding areas will be interrupted for approximately a week, the eThekwini Municipality announced on Monday afternoon. “The interruption is due to two different bursts on the 375mm water pipeline between Toti Waterworks and the Lewis Drive Reservoir,” the municipality said. “As a result of these bursts, some areas in Toti will experience water shortages.” The municipality said repair work started on Monday and it was estimated that because of the extent of the storm damage, the landscape, access challenges, and that the site was still wet, it would take approximately a week to complete the repairs and restore the water supply. The following areas will experience water shortages during the maintenance process: The municipality said that water tankers were available to assist the affected areas. “The municipality apologises for the inconvenience caused and appeals to residents to be patient while repairs are under way,” the municipality said. For more information regarding water supply, it said the public could contact the call centre on 080 131 3013, the toll-free number on 080 311 1111 or use the eThekwini Water and Sanitation WhatsApp number, 073 1483 477. On Monday, the Daily News’ sister publication, The Mercury, reported that during heavy rains on Saturday, the Avondale pump station at the Hazelmere Water Treatment Works was flooded, damaging the three pumps in it. Umgeni Water corporate stakeholder manager Shami Harichunder said the damaged pumps resulted in an interruption of water supply to eThekwini Metro, iLembe District Municipality and Siza Water. The Avondale system supplies areas such as Zimbali, Ballito, Salt Rock, Sheffield, Tinley Manor, Shakashead, uMhlali, the Groutville areas of Driefontein and Addington Trust, Mamba Ridge and Fraser Greylands. Harichunder said the pumps had since been removed and were being repaired. Repairs and re-installation of the three pumps were expected to be completed by Wednesday, and commissioning was due to begin the following day. He said that while repairs were being carried out, the La Mercy pump station was supplying both the La Mercy and Avondale systems. To ensure that water was available to consumers, the La Mercy and Avondale reservoirs were being supplied on a rotational basis. Daily News