DURBAN: A 29-year-old woman was rescued after her house on Roseberry Avenue in the Umgeni Park area in Durban turned into a blazing inferno on Saturday which ultimately resulted in the death of her grandfather. Marshall Security managing director Tyron Powell said teams responded to a fire at an Umgeni Park home at approximately 6am on Saturday. Powell said Marshall armed response officers and members of the special operations team were immediately dispatched to assist, along with all other emergency services. He said the teams on the scene were forced to break down doors and crawl through smoke to reach the woman who was trapped inside. “Upon their arrival the fire was raging, clouds of heavy black smoke billowing from the house, and our members were advised that a 29-year-old woman and her 74-year-old grandfather were trapped inside. “They assessed the situation for points of entry and proceeded with breaking down the front door and crawling through the house in search of the victims. They found the woman and managed to evacuate her,” said Powell. Powell said the grandfather was trapped in a room at the back of the house and members were unable to reach him. “Sadly, he tragically succumbed to the fire,” he said. According to Powell, Metro Fire arrived at the,scene a short while later and started an extensive search of the gutted house. The man’s body was eventually found and retrieved. He said the woman and a Marshall armed response officer were treated by Netcare911 paramedics for smoke inhalation. No further injuries were reported. “The cause of the fire is unknown at this stage. Metro Fire and the SAPS were on scene for further investigation. Metro Police Search and Rescue and Greenwood Park Victim Support also attended to assist,” he said. Powell commended armed response officer Luke Nathaniel, other first responders and members of the community for their swift action and assistance.     MOST READ: – Vehicle hijacked in PMB found in KZN South Coast chop shop, suspects dropped victim off in Cato Manor – Durban Solid Waste worker dies in truck accident while on duty – Teen sisters speak of trauma after being raped during KZN house robbery, one of the rapists handed hefty sentence – eThekwini Water and Sanitation clerk, two service providers nabbed for fraud – Black mamba rescued in the parking lot of Westville office park THE MERCURY