Durban - The Auditor-General South Africa (AGSA) has begun its physical verification of the work done versus the funds spent by the Department of Public Works on repairs to the damages that were caused by the deadly April 2022 in KwaZulu-Natal. During the week, Emanuel Seabela from the AGSA visited the Air Force Base in Durban. The SANDF’s Sergeant Zodwa Madula said the meeting consisted of the auditor, regional manager plus three members from the Public Works Department, three service providers responsible for repairs, cleaning of the mud and fixing the fence, as well as the officer  commanding and facility manager of the base. Department of Public Works regional manager Nkosi Vilakazi briefed the group on what the visit was about and  the Officer Commanding, Colonel Lennon Atchanna gave an overview of the damages the base sustained. Atchanna highlighted the damages the floods caused to the physical structure of the base, and the disruption of water and electricity supply as the water was flowing into the base which resulted in the facility being covered by mud,  leading to the Department of Public Works having to urgently repair the base. Seabela reiterated that the main reason for his visit was to perform physical verification, as various procurements were done to start the repairs for whatever damages might have been caused by the floods. “We just want to see what was damaged and how much work has been done and to see if the work has commenced,” Seabela said. He also mentioned that, as they would be going around the base checking, he was going ask questions as well as take pictures. Areas that were inspected were the living-in kitchen and dining area, sickbay, accommodation block and 15 Squadron hanger. Colonel Atchanna concluded by saying that “work has started and you can see it's ongoing, so in a little time I'll be able to get myself operational again. But without the help of the Department of Public Works, we wouldn't have been able to manage to carry on and for that I am grateful.” Daily News