Durban - Supporters of former President Jacob Zuma are set to once again trek to Nkandla to host a prayer to show support for the former head of state as he continues to butt heads with the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) and the judiciary. The prayer service will be held on Thursday at Zuma’s home and it is meant to show him support as he faces “persecution by law”. It comes almost two weeks after the newly elected provincial leadership of the ANC’s Musa Dladla region, Zuma's own region, visited him in Nkandla to pledge their support before his bruising legal battles that are set to consume most of his time this year. Bishop Vusi Dube, the founder of the eThekwini Community Church in Durban, said the prayer was meant to offer spiritual support and show Zuma’s enemies that he was not alone. “The purpose of the prayer is to stand in solidarity during the time of persecution by law. A man who in his own life fought to liberate us from draconian law, today he is being punished for leading us into the promised land.” “It is a warning to those who think Msholozi (Zuma) is standing in isolation as he appears in court.  But let the system know that Msholozi is and still is the best president we ever had in South Africa,” Dube said. NEWS: Supporters of former Pres Jacob Zuma will on Thurs host a solidarity prayer for the former head of state. The organisers of the prayer to be held in Nkandla said it's meant to show support as Zuma, "the President we ever had in SA" is facing "persecution" @DailyNewsSA Mdu Nkambule, one of the leaders of “My President Group”, another grouping that is known for idolising and supporting Zuma, confirmed that they were also part of those organising the prayer. “Yes, we are the people organising it. It’s to give strength to President Zuma as he is faced with many court appearances and judgments against him,” Nkambule said. Although he is not part of those organising it, another fervent supporter of Zuma, Carl Niehaus said, he would try to attend it. “I know about it, but I am not part of the organisers. They are in KZN. I will try to go,” Niehaus said. On Thursday Zuma suffered another legal setback in his battle with NPA’s Advocate Billy Downer SC, when the President of the Supreme Court of Appeal, Justice Mandisa Maya, dismissed his reconsideration application. In the matter, Zuma is trying to get Downer off as the lead prosecutor in his arms deal trial, alleging that he contaminated the case by leaking information to American spies and selected South African journalists. sihle.mavuso@inl.co.za Daily News