Durban - Road carnage  continues unabated in KwaZulu-Natal with the South African Police Service confirming that more than 20 people were killed in accidents roads over the weekend. The bulk of the fatalities was from a multiple-vehicle pile-up on the N3 near Pietermaritzburg in the early hours of Saturday morning. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala confirmed that 16 people died at the scene while others were taken to the hospital for medical attention. “We can confirm a case of culpable homicide is being investigated by Town Hill SAPS after multiple vehicles were involved in a collision on May 28, 2022, at 4am, on the N3 southbound below Peter Brown bridge,” Gwala said. Netcare 911 spokesperson Shawn Herbst said that reports indicated that two trucks, a bakkie, minibus and five other cars were involved in a collision resulting in a fully laden taxi bursting into flames. “When rescuers arrived on the scene, the fire had spread to other vehicles and had engulfed the taxi with all its occupants,” Herbst said. “While on the scene, another secondary collision occurred on the northbound carriageway, which left emergency personnel scrambling.” KZN VIP Protection Services spokesperson Gareth Naidoo said two people were killed and three others were left injured following a crash in Durban North. “KZN VIP medics responded to the scene and stabilised three patients who sustained moderate injuries and were transported to the hospital for further medical attention. Sadly two people were declared deceased on the scene,” Naidoo said. He said it was reported that the vehicle veered off the M4 Ruth First Highway, and came through the fence and barrier landing on Waterkant Road. Four people were killed and seven were left injured in a crash on the N2, before Spaghetti Junction in Durban, on Friday night. Gwala said: “A case of culpable homicide is being investigated by Cato Manor SAPS after the vehicle collided with a stationary truck. Four people were declared dead at the scene.” ALS Paramedics Medical Services spokesperson Garrith Jamieson said initially, three people had been killed but the fourth victim, a teenager, died hours afterwards. Jamieson said ALS Paramedics together with Life Response 24/7 arrived on the scene to find total carnage after an SUV believed to be carrying an entire family had somehow lost control and collided into the rear of a truck. “One male and two females from the SUV were found to be severely entrapped in the wreckage with fatal injuries. Unfortunately, there was nothing paramedics could do for them and they were declared deceased on the scene. The eThekwini Fire Department utilised the Jaws of Life and other hydraulic tools to free them from the wreckage,” Jamieson said. “Eight others including two babies had sustained injuries ranging from moderate to critical and they were stabilised on the scene before being transported to a nearby Durban hospital for the further treatment that they required.” Gwala said a case of culpable homicide was being investigated by Greenwood Park SAPS after a 40-year-old man was knocked by a vehicle along North Coast Road in Redhill on Friday evening. “He was declared dead at the scene.” Emer-G-Med spokesperson Kyle van Reenen said a man was killed after he was struck by a minibus taxi whilst attempting to cross Chris Hani Road in the Avoca area just after 6pm. He said paramedics arrived on the scene to find the man lying on the roadway having suffered fatal injuries. He was declared dead on the scene. A 5-year-old boy was killed in a hit-and-run accident and a 10-year-old girl was left injured. Gwala said Prestbury SAPS were investigating a case of culpable homicide. “It is alleged that on May 27, 2022 at 5.45pm, a 5-year-old child was knocked by a vehicle on Mayors Walk. The driver failed to stop after the accident,” Gwala said. The Mi7 National Group responded to the scene after reports of a motor vehicle incident involving pedestrians. “Mi7 medics found a 5-year-old boy who had succumbed to his injuries and was declared deceased on the scene,” Mi7 National Group spokesperson, Colin Davids, said. “A 10-year-old girl sustained minor injuries, and was transported to a nearby hospital by another service provider.” Davids said it is believed that both children were crossing the road when they were struck by the vehicle. The driver fled the scene. Daily News