Durban - An alert street security guard was instrumental in the arrest of two men who had stolen a cable from a light pole near Greyville Racecourse. Both men are expected to appear in the Durban Magistrates Court on Wednesday.  Dew Force Security spokesperson Yusuf Moola said his guard noticed two men interfering with a light pole outside Greyville racecourse.  ‘’During this time he contacted Durban metro police  and informed them of what was occurring. The men had cut a thick black cable, over two meters in length,  from the pole using a small black hand saw. They knew what they were doing because they had come prepared,“ said Moola.  When metro police arrived, the men tried to flee but were apprehended after a short foot chase.  The men were detained at Berea SAPS. They were charged for theft of municipal electricity cable and possession of a dangerous weapon, as one may was also found in possession of an okapi knife.  Moola said street patrols and guards were important to curb crime. He said guard were the eyes and ears of the police.  “’Had the guard not been trained properly, the men would have fled. Cable theft leads to power outages in the area and this contributes to crime,” Moola said.  Meanwhile, on Tuesday, eMkhomazi (Umkomaas) police officers and private security acted on information regarding a group of suspects who were stealing copper cables, said police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala.  The team proceeded to Zuba area in eMkhomazi, where a group of men were spotted cutting and removing copper cables. Three men aged between 37 and 39 were placed under arrest. A vehicle with equipment valued at R20 000 that belonged to Eskom was seized by police. Police recovered copper cables which belonged to the eThekwini Municipality.  eMkhomazi police officers received information about a suspect who was in possession of stolen copper cable at the Ilfracombe railway line. A 33-year-old suspect was found in possession of stolen copper cable.  Daily News