Durban - A Mercedes-Benz that was stolen during a home invasion in Reservoir Hills on Monday, was tracked to an abandoned dirt road in the Lindelani area. Marshall Security managing director Tyron Powell said that at approximately 9.30am, members of their special operations team were activated to assist Tracker SA with a silver Mercedes-Benz that had been taken in a house robbery in the Reservoir Hills area. “After approximately 20 minutes of tracking the vehicle, it was found abandoned on a dirt road in the Lindelani area by the Tracker SA ground team, assisted by members of our Special Operations Team and the SAPS Phoenix Trio Crimes Unit,” Powell said. He said the scene was secured and would be investigated  by the SAPS. The Daily News’ sister publication, The Mercury, had reported that a gang of armed suspects had targeted a house on Alysham Close in Reservoir Hills. Inkosi Security officers were dispatched to the house after receiving reports of a home invasion at about 9am on Monday. “The resident opened for his dog and did not notice anything suspicious and went back in,” the security company said. Inkosi Security said an elderly woman was then met by an armed suspect by the window and he forced her to open it for the suspects to enter the house. The victims were held at gunpoint while the suspects searched the home for valuables, said the company. Inkosi Security said the gang made off with several valuable items, including a silver Mercedes A-class vehicle. The security company said the suspects used a silver Jetta with an unknown registration number. “The residents are okay but shaken up by the experience. It was noted by the residents that the Jetta was seen not too far from the residence since Friday,” said Inkosi Security. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala confirmed the incident. Gwala said according to the complainant, four suspects entered the home and at gunpoint forced the male resident into a room while they ransacked the house for valuables. The suspects fled in the complainant’s vehicle with two TV sets, a computer, cellphones and other belongings, she said. “No shots were fired. The matter is still under investigation,” said Gwala. Police said a case of house robbery is being investigated by Sydenham SAPS. Daily News