Durban - It would be another two months before the victim of a honey trap testified before Magistrate E La Grange in the Ntuzuma Magistrate’s Court.  This comes after the victim was allegedly left locked inside the house he had been lured to under the pretence of a sexual threesome. Rekha Singh and common-law husband and wife Syed Arif Kazmi and Gwendolene Leonara Mackenzie pleaded guilty to the robbery with aggravating circumstances where the victim was struck several times with a hammer before his belongings including his car were stolen. Singh in her plea statement said that they left the house, locking the complainant inside, after he had managed to escape the assault by locking himself inside the toilet. “I ran out the front door into my tuck shop situated in the front of the yard and locked the door from the inside and hid there. I did not know the extent of harm caused to the complainant,” she said. This was as allegedly Kazmi and Mackenzie were headed to Pietermaritzburg in the victim’s car, which was being driven by Singh’s husband. “After some time when I exited the tuck shop and went into my house, to my horror the whole house was in a complete mess. My kitchen refrigerator was dropped on its side against the burglar gate. There was no one in the house. I was scared and then went back into my tuck shop and hid. Shortly thereafter I could hear the police arrived on the scene, but they did not search the tuck shop and I was too afraid to approach them. When the police had gone, I exited the tuck shop and met with my children. We spent the night at the neighbour’s home,” said Singh. The trial is set to begin on August 11. According to Kazmi’s plea the trio’s modus operandi was that Singh would chat up men over WhatsApp Messenger and then lure them to the house on the pretext of sex or a threesome with his common-law wife, Mackenzie. “I would then appear out of the blue and accuse the male of being sexual with my wife, accused 3, and then rob the said male of his property and valuables or try to extort money from him to either pay up or have his wife notified of his affairs,” he said. The complainant’s firearm, ammunition, cellphone and takkies were also stolen at the house where the crime took place in 2019 in Newlands West. According the pleas of all three accused, before Kazmi stormed into the bedroom where Mackenzie was clad in her underwear and Singh topless, the two women had intentionally got the victim in a bid to execute their trio’s alleged pre-hatched plan. Daily News