Durban - A passenger in a taxi allegedly jumped to his death on Wednesday morning when the vehicle he was travelling had brake failure in Verulam, north of Durban. KZN VIP Protection Services spokesperson Gareth Naidoo said that the incident happened in Softwood Crescent. Naidoo said that KZN VIP paramedics were sent to the scene after receiving multiple calls from residents reporting the incident. “Upon the arrival of KZN VIP medics one person was declared deceased after he attempted jumping out of the taxi when there was a brake failure,” Naidoo said. “No other injuries were reported and the taxi came to a halt against the steel barriers.” Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) spokesperson Prem Balram said that the victim is Shalen Panday, 40, popularly known as PJ. Panday was employed as a bus driver at Seven Tours. Balram said that residents contacted Rusa at 6.07am after the Toyota HiAce taxi crashed into a metal barrier. “On arrival, Panday was found lying on the road bleeding excessively from an injury to his head. He was declared deceased by medics from a private ambulance service,” Balram said. “It was established that the brakes on the minibus failed when Panday opened the sliding door and attempted to jump to safety; however he struck the metal barrier with his head. The driver informed reaction officers that he advised Panday not to jump as he attempted to bring the vehicle to a stop. The conductor fled the scene following the accident,” he said. Commenting on Facebook, Dravina Ramai who lives in the area said that Panday did not hit a barrier but hit the tar. The incident happened outside her house. She added that the driver and conductor jumped out of the taxi before it could stop. The information given to Rusa was incorrect, she said. “He did not hit a barrier… He hit the tar. This happened right outside my house. The driver and conductor jumped out of the taxi before it could stop...This is completely wrong info,” Ramai said. “The driver told them to jump. As he couldn't stop the taxi. The taxi then hit the barrier which is more than 30 metres away from where the deceased is seen. The deceased could not have rolled up the hill,” she said. Ramai said the conductor jumped first and then the deceased. Ramai said that Panday was a good man, and his family and friends were devastated. Reacting to news of his death, Facebook users had this to say: Jennet Nadasen said: “Pictures speak a million words.. don't see no barrier... Just doesn't make sense... Why did the conductor run... Too many questions....” Ashy Sudhu said: “There is no Barrier near him. Clearly, something doesn't make sense here. And why did the conductor run away? Too many questions to ask. May his soul rest in peace.” Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said that a case of culpable homicide is being investigated by Verulam SAPS. “It is alleged that this morning at 7:45am, a taxi with passengers crashed into the guard rails. One of the passengers aged 40 jumped out of the moving taxi and he died.” Daily News