THE makers of Broken Promises, Run For Your Life and Highway Sheila have released a new film on streaming platform, Prime Video Africa. Kumaran Naidu’s The Good, The Old, And The Greedy is a comedy in which he stars with Logan Ramalu, Sherilene Sukram, Kogie Naidoo, Ross Ramsunder, Hena Rubykissoon and Theshen Naicker. Naidu, who also directed the film, said he wrote the script at the beginning of 2019. “I wanted it to be relatable. I was unemployed at the time, so I decided to explore the topic of getting a job and trying to make ends meet. I created these characters who find it difficult to make money. “It's an ensemble cast, mainly revolving around a relationship between a granny (Kogie Naidoo) and a health-care worker. Initially, the health-care worker lies to get the job but develops a friendship with the granny. Meanwhile, her grandson, a con artist, played by Ross Ramsunder, wants her to die quickly so he can inherit a fortune. But she is strong. She does yoga much like a super granny. Instead of the grandson and his con man friend solving their problems, they get deeper and deeper into trouble.” The film was supposed to release on cinema in 2020, but after the Covid-19 pandemic affected attendance, the plan changed. “My producer said streaming was the best platform to go into now. Prime video was interested.” Naidu, meanwhile, is also working on Run for Your Life 3. “This has been a long time coming. A lot of fans have asked for this movie. We held auditions earlier this year and began shooting this month. But the shoots are on hold at the moment due to the rising Covid-19 infection rate. The past two years during this pandemic have been difficult for me.  “I was supposed to be in production for a movie in 2020 and another in 2021. I was looking forward to the release of The Good, The Old, And The Greedy in cinema because there was so much time and effort put into the making this movie. I can easily say it is one of my best movies.” Naidu said his interest in films sparked while he was growing up in Chatsworth and working behind the scenes in his father’s video stores. “Seeing how films were made fascinated me. I couldn't really get on to a film set in the ‘90s. After I matriculated, there wasn't much opportunity. So when digital technology took off in the country, that was when I decided to give myself an opportunity by making my own film. “I mainly love comedy and drama but I want to make a full sci-fi film. I love the concept of unexplored space. We don't know what lies beyond this galaxy and that intrigues me. The other genre I would love to dabble in, is to look at ancient cultures, especially the Hindu culture.” POST