Michael Lachimiah DON is a romantic comedy drama by debut director Cibi Chakaravarthi, an associate of celebrated Kollywood director Atlee.  This is an impressive debut indeed. The story revolves around Chakaravathy, played by Sivakarthikeyan, who does not have an interest in studying engineering, but due to his father’s insistence he is compelled to obtain that qualification.  Veteran director-turned-actor Samuthirakani plays to perfection the role of Ganesan, Chakaravathy’s strict and seemingly cold-hearted father. Ganesan  stops at nothing to ensure his son attains an engineering qualification, so that the community would give him the respect that he yearned for. The movie, by means of several flashbacks, depicts how Chakaravathy is treated as a child by his cold-hearted dad Ganesan and the fear he still has when he gets into engineering college. Because Chakaravathy does not have an interest in studying engineering (he would rather be a film director in Kollywood), he performs rather dismally in his studies. The college’s head of discipline, Boominathan, steps in. This role is portrayed excellently by director-turned-actor SJ Suryah.  Boominathan is a disciplinarian who does not take kindly to anyone who does not toe the line. He does meet his match in Chakaravathy, who turns the tables on Boominathan in a game of wits. This aggravates Boominathan to such an extent that he is hell-bent on removing Chakaravathy from college. Add to the mix Angaiyarkanni, played by Priyanka Arul Mohan, who plays Chakaravathy’s love interest. She tries to convince him to confess his love for her in front of his dad. The music by Anirudh Ravichander is foot-tapping good. The songs show what a great dancer Sivakartheyan is. The climax scene conveys a message to parents to not force their children to study courses they have no interest in. They should rather allow them to study what they are passionate about. Another message is for children to listen to their parents. Be prepared to shed a tear or two at the tail-end of the movie.  I have a sneaky suspicion that Don is based on the real-life story of director Cibi Chakaravarthi who, against all odds, turned out as a director in Kollywood.   Title: Don Cast: Sivakarthikeyan, Priyanka Arul Mohan, SJ Suryah and Samuthirakani Music: Anirudh Ravichander Director: Cibi Chakaravarthi Rating: 3/5  * Don is now showing at Cine Centre Suncoast, Durban. POST